[Adam Levinthal] [00:00] Hello, Bryan. How are you?
[Bryan Can trill] [00:02] I'm doing well. How are you?
[Adam Levinthal] [00:04] I'm good. Did you, take the day off or or or hard nose to grindstone?
[Bryan Can trill] [00:08] Oh, nose to grindstone, please. I'd I, you know, I would like to think that the presidents that we honour, only George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, I choose. Yes. You know, I we call it President's Day, but it's only just presidents plural. I feel it's very specific.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:23] I feel it's just it's just two presidents that we're honouring today. I am. Anyway, that's how I'm observing it today. I don't
[Bryan Can trill] [00:27] know how you're doing it.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:28] We're not we're not observing I'm sorry. I'm not observing Warren Harding today.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:33] No. He can get he can get stuffed.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:36] Warren Harding who croaked in San Francisco.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:39] I did not know that.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:40] No. Did you not know this? No. Randy, welcome. Did you know this that Warren Harding bought it in San Francisco?
[Bryan Can trill] [00:46] I so actually, I've, so I was at the House of Shields.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:54] Yes. Great bar in Burma. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:57] Well, so I'm at the house of shields. Who am I with?
[Adam Levinthal] [00:59] O'Grady. Of course.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00] Yeah. Of course. Exactly. Right. They're well played.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02] So Steven O'Grady is in town. He wants to so we go to the House Of Shields. And, we and I start I bring up Warren Harding, of course, the death of Warren Harding. Why do I bring up the death of Warren Harding? Because Warren Harding died in the Palace Hotel across the street.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18] And I'm like, yeah, it's great to be here. It's in the Palace Hotel here to where Warren Harding's final moments on this earth. Last words, I need water. I can kinda feel that's like emblematic of someone not exactly going out on their own terms.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:35] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37] Soda and water, and that was the end, the pallet ale. And, and a Jason Hoffman, you know I both have been on the been on the pod. I believe it was Jason who's who said, you are the only person who knows that. That is so obscure. But, you know, that is really not that obscure.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:55] Do you know what I mean? Like, this is like a US President died here. Like, this is just not you know, it feels obscure because, you know, Warren Harding feels like, but Warren Harding was the President of the United States. It's like, if it was a very big deal. There weren't
[Adam Levinthal] [02:07] that many, actually. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:08] There weren't that many. Not that many died in office. Not that many died in office in San Francisco, namely one. So it's like, this is a big deal. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:16] And I'm like, you know, it to the contrary, I think you could walk across the street and you could any employee at the Palace Hotel is going to know that Warren Harding died in the Palace Hotel. He's like, no way. $20 you're on. I'm like, alright.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:33] Okay. That was an opportunity to really make some money, I feel like.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:36] Oh, stay with me. So we go across the street. And, of course, the first person we see at the hotel, and we would agree that is the first hotel employee we see. And of course, the first hotel employee we see is the concierge. And so I go up to the concierge where Jason and I go up together, and I'm like, sir, a US president died in this hotel, and I didn't even get to the end of that sentence.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:03] And the knowing look in that guy's eyes, I'm like, I have this thing, like, absolutely aced. Like, this guy is going to be able to answer any single question about this guy. So I finished the sentence, died in this hotel. He said yes. And I'm wondering if you might be able to answer some questions about that.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:23] He said, certainly. And then I think he was a little offended when I was like, what was the name of that president? He's like, come on. It's like, I was hoping for, like, I want, like, a room number
[Adam Levinthal] [03:32] and a time of there's
[Bryan Can trill] [03:34] so much else I can offer, but he's like, and he just says, with just, like, the look that you would give a toddler that thinks they've asked a sophisticated question that has not actually asked a sophisticated question at all, he just says, Warren G. Harding, the whatever president he was of The United States. And Jason's kinda dumbfounded, and he's, and then he immediately starts, like, well, I mean, that's because it's the concierge. And I'm like, okay. And now this is where you're like, opportunity to really take some money. I'm like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:05] Thousand dollar bet. We find someone for whom the question needs to be translated who knows the answer.
[Adam Levinthal] [04:14] Love it.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:15] And, like, we like, you can find and because, like, you work at the hotel. Like, you're the house keepings. Like, whatever your role is at the hotel, you mean, it's a hotel. Like, you you you know what the US president died there. It's part of the lore.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:29] You know what I mean? And he lost his courage. He's like, no. No. I'm not taking that bet.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:33] And I, you know, I probably overshot. I should've gotten, like, you know, a hundred bucks or something. I I I probably overshot the mark. But so I guess I am today celebrating, I guess, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, and the death of Warren Harding. Not the life, my dear, but only the death.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:49] Standard written presidency. Teapot Dome scandal. Like, the guy was a mean, he was the know, how they give each president, that has, like, a nickname associated with him. I was super into the presence as a kid. And yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:06] That didn't seem earnest.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:07] Oh, no. Go on, please. No. No. That's good.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:10] I feel like I'm, like, the deep sea garland model. He has said something that does not seem earnest. It may be sarcastic. I will need to ask a further probing question to know if, and the Warren Harding's Warren Harding's nickname was the man from Main Street, which is, you know, and it kinda tells you. This is not this is not a sparkling presidency.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:35] This is, but that was when the standards for the presidency were different. And now I would take quarter-hour a thousand times. It's like sober.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:41] Man from Main Street, like, you've got my book.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:42] Man from Main Street. I'll take that. That sounds terrific. I mean, you just I I I can feel a sense of rectitude just the way you say it. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:50] So, anyway, welcome, Randy. Welcome as we celebrate the President's Day here, on Oxide and Friends. So, Randy, I'm gonna, you know, I we know you're a listener of the pod. Is that a fair
[Randy Shop] [06:07] I may, I can't say long time listener, but I'm a relatively recent time listener, but I've been, binging. And not just because you not just because you invited me, but because so I was a big fan of On the Metal, and then, you know, you guys went dark on that and came back in your various spaces and clubhouses and, you know, ephemeral things. And so I lost track, but now I'm back.
[Bryan Can trill] [06:31] Now you're back. Well, so as you know, it is there is many episodes and many, some episodes in which we we we get trolled. We get trolled by a tweet. We get trolled by a blog post. And I know that you have thought to yourself, well, this is good because, like, this is not one of those episodes, but this actually is one of those episodes, unfortunately.
[Bryan Can trill] [06:49] And it's got nothing to do with the meta ad. Don't worry. I'm not going there. The, the or no further there anyway. So the reason that this is actually the there is kind of a an underlying troll here is there was this, and I and again, I I I don't wanna over index on the more it's more of the sentiment that this, was a tweet, but I've I've posted the blue sky post in the channel, and it is from, let's just say a young technologist in Silicon Valley.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:20] It doesn't really matter who, but it's the And the tweet is, Silicon Valley built the modern world. Why shouldn't we run it? And this is in kind of tacit support of what we are seeing currently in Washington and this kind of this very much, move fast, break things approach to the government, which is breaking a lot of things as it turns out. And, you know, and, Randy, I imagine I mean, surely, you must feel the same way of just, like, your skin crawling when you have someone who is not just choosing to speak for Silicon Valley, but someone who is so grossly unqualified and speaking in a way that so doesn't represent so many of us in Silicon Valley. And
[Randy Shop] [08:08] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [08:11] Totally. Yeah. Right. Exactly. You're just like, yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [08:15] That is one way of expressing the reaction I'm doing right now.
[Randy Shop] [08:20] Yeah. Look, I mean, feel free to complete your thought. But, yeah, it's crazy. I mean, the fact that, you know, it's this whatever PayPal Mafia, you know, slightly enlarged, and the worst of them all that are, like, you know, destroying the republic. Like, that's not great.
[Randy Shop] [08:41] And then what has annoyed me actually, and maybe told me in this area is, these, like, relative I've written I've read, several articles recently about, oh, Silicon Valley's always been super hard right. Like Yeah. No. No. Have you ever been here?
[Randy Shop] [08:59] Like, we were like, since the seventies, it's been like hippies and, you know, LSD and, you know, counterculture and changing the world. And it's only relatively recently in the history of Silicon Valley that it has been about money, money, money. And even the people, you know, that have made, all that money, and I there are a number of them, and I know a number of them. For the most part, they didn't start coming here just to make bank. Right?
[Randy Shop] [09:30] They came here to do things that they cared about. And, oh, by the way, those things that they cared about turns out that, you know, millions and billions of other people cared about and therefore, we went from there. But I do get my backup, yeah, with this, like, implication that, oh, everybody in Silicon Valley is an Elon Musk or a Peter Thiel.
[Bryan Can trill] [09:48] That's right. Well, and
[Randy Shop] [09:50] That's not alright.
[Bryan Can trill] [09:51] That's not alright. And I think that also I mean, what thing that I've kind of come to accept is that, and I think something that's important to express is that there are many different Silicon Valleys. And there's a there's a tapestry of Silicon Valley, and there are many different threads through it.
[Randy Shop] [10:09] We attain multitudes, Brian, multitudes.
[Bryan Can trill] [10:11] We do contain multitudes. We do contain multitudes. And it's like and the think for people who haven't been out to the literal Silicon Valley, if is you are out in the Santa Clara Valley, it's barely a valley. It's like a valley is not the term that's going to come to mind. You'd be like, okay, I see like there is a mountain range over there, and I guess there is technically another mountain range that I can see way over there.
[Bryan Can trill] [10:33] Is this the valley that people are talking about? It's like, yes, this is this kind of this flood plain. It's the Bay Area. But the Silicon Valley as metaphor, and, you know, I've often spoken of kind of my Silicon Valley or out of our Silicon Valley, which is, you know, the Silicon Valley of the Traitor's eight or of Xerox PARC or Randy of the Counter Culture. And I you know, there is no one, I think, that is, I think, has got a better perspective on this.
[Bryan Can trill] [11:03] Or you got a unique perspective on this whole thing, in many different kinds of dimensions. So, can we get into your life story for a little bit? Do you mind if we?
[Randy Shop] [11:15] I don't mind at all. I I I do not have the best perspective, but I do have a unique perspective. So I'll
[Adam Levinthal] [11:19] happily I
[Bryan Can trill] [11:20] think that that's right. Yeah. I think well, because in particular, so you come out you not actually born here. You're born, I guess, in Pittsburgh when your parents are at what we now call CMU, but was then, I guess, Carnegie Tech. Is that right?
[Randy Shop] [11:33] Carnegie Institute of Technology. Yeah. Everybody, abbreviated to Carnegie Tech.
[Bryan Can trill] [11:37] Yep. And you, but you come out as your father is is is he coming out to work for Berkeley Computer Company? Is that do I have that?
[Randy Shop] [11:48] You have that exactly right. Yeah. So, both my parents grew up in Western Pennsylvania around, Pittsburgh, And they met at what was then Carnegie Tech and now Carnegie Mellon University. My dad earned his, undergrad in double e in '65 and then got his PhD in computer science in 1970. And then he Computer science
[Bryan Can trill] [12:11] in 1970. God, that is a very early computer science department.
[Randy Shop] [12:13] Yeah. There, I believe that it might be it is, it might be the first computer science PhD program in The US.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:21] Yeah. That was Which
[Randy Shop] [12:22] which might mean in the world. Yeah. So his, his application to join the PhD program was his, his professor Gordon Bell saying, hey, Dick, I'm starting up a computer science lab. Would you like to join it? And my dad's saying, yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:39] So And You
[Randy Shop] [12:40] know? That was pretty cool.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:41] Worth elaborating a little bit on who Gordon Bell, was. I think Gordon Bell has passed away. Right? You think that was
[Randy Shop] [12:47] Yeah. I mean, he's another generation. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:50] But describe Gordon Bell a little bit because, yeah, Gordon Bell just passed away last year, May have twenty-twenty four. But so, a pioneer of computing for sure. And just kind of amazing to think of, I mean, the discipline is still so young, you know, in so many regards that you have. So he goes to work for, and then picks up his family and moves to the West Coast to go to Berkeley Computer Company.
[Randy Shop] [13:15] Yeah. So, I was a year and a half. So I was born in Pittsburgh, like I said, Shady side Hospital right outside, Carnegie. And then, we moved out when I was, one and a half, 19 70. So he's got, you know, freshly minted PhD.
[Randy Shop] [13:31] We'll talk a little bit about what it's in, or I'll just mention. His PhD proposed FPGAs. Like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [13:40] I
[Randy Shop] [13:40] actually was just looking around in my little archives, which is a, you know, a shelf on my bookshelf. And I have an actual print copy of his, of his PhD that was typed by my mom.
[Bryan Can trill] [13:52] Oh, wow. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [13:53] Which is pretty cool. I mean, it's an it's a photocopy of it because the original is obviously in the CMU archives or whatever. But,
[Bryan Can trill] [13:59] what an heirloom, you know, to have that is that that's amazing.
[Randy Shop] [14:03] Yeah. So he proposed in his, he proposed, I forget exactly what he called it. Reconfigured cell reconfigurable cellular logic. I think that might have been the title, something like that. Didn't use the term FPGA that came later, but it's exactly that idea.
[Randy Shop] [14:17] It's, you know, earlier, you know, all computing was phenomenon architecture, so separate, you know, the data from the processing. And this was, hey, what if we took the silicon and, like, made it super generic and, and, you know, reconfigured it on the fly, essentially. And it's only relatively recently, like so again, this PhD is 1970. It's only relatively recently. Let's call it twenty-two thousands maybe, but certainly twenty tens, where that has become somewhat mainstream.
[Randy Shop] [14:51] Like, I think there's an Amazon FPGA, service. And then, yeah. And then, Microsoft on Bing, had a project that they called Catapult, which was pairing FPGAs to do the ranking function right next to CPUs essentially, you know, that computed all the search stuff. So anybody whose super interested in that should, Google Catapult. Anyway, but, like, relatively niche, you know, from that perspective, you know, in the broader ecosystem.
[Randy Shop] [15:25] Obviously, what you guys would know about and what my dad was originally envisioning was testing new silicon. Right? So, like, hey, let's build the generic silicon and, and then use that to refine, techniques and ideas and then kind of reify those, if that makes any sense.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:44] Yeah. For sure. And we I know it's, I know it's gauche to make reference to one's early on podcast. Although, actually, it is I mean, do I actually believe that because, like,
[Randy Shop] [15:52] I do it so for you, You do it all the time.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:54] I mean, we do it, like, six times
[Adam Levinthal] [15:55] an episode now, so gauche it up.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:58] Yeah. Exactly. I'll go shut up. But the our conversation with Roger Tandoori was so good in that regard, Adam. And that was Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [16:05] Yeah. The and the ran into Raja, but a pioneer in his own right, and kinda what the it just talked about the differences between the CPU and GPU and FPGA and ASIC and kinda when you need these different things and
[Randy Shop] [16:19] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [16:19] And soft logic and FPGA has got a very important role to play. So, yeah, kind of wild that your, that your dad is proposing this in his PhD thesis. That is that's really Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [16:31] It's its crazy. So if you track the graph of the papers about FPGAs all the way back, like, they sort of terminate or begin at, at this PhD thesis.
[Adam Levinthal] [16:40] Wayne, I know he passed a number of years ago. I watched your talk where he had passed recently. Yeah. And, was he delighted to see FPGAs develop in the way
[Randy Shop] [16:51] that they did? That's an interesting that's a great question. He consulted on the side every so often for Filing and Nice. That's What's the other one? Is it Altered that might not be right?
[Bryan Can trill] [17:04] It's Altered. Altered well, there well, the other one yeah. There are the this is where you get the there are a couple other ones. Lattice is definitely weeping because you're the other one you're referring to is not Lattice. It's Altered.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:18] Yeah. And Altered was an Intel property. A and what the hell? I'm just going to make reference to our episode on Intel. Sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:26] Until after Gel singer. December two. You know, I'm just I'm not going to apologize for it. You know what? I'm I'm loud and proud
[Randy Shop] [17:30] about it.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:30] You should go listen to our Until after Gel singer episode where I think we had mentioned out there at least once, but, yes.
[Randy Shop] [17:36] Yes. So he
[Bryan Can trill] [17:36] he so he that and that's a great question because he mean, clearly, that I mean, that's an entire industry that he is, like, dip
[Adam Levinthal] [17:45] Can you imagine, like, kind of, like, doing some work as, like, in your early twenties that then turned out to be, like, this whole, you know, I'll make up another billion-dollar industry or whatever. That'd be wild. That'd be crazy.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:56] We you don't need to Hold on.
[Randy Shop] [17:59] We're we're not there yet. Yeah. So, so I think he was, I think he was pleased, but it wasn't the crowning achievement of his life by a long shot because Right. Basically, he never did, he never def did FPGAs for Sirius after he completed his PhD. We will fill in the blanks here, but he ended up at Xerox PARC and started most modern computer graphics, in particular, animation.
[Randy Shop] [18:23] So, like, there's a direct line from the work that he did at PARC to, Pixar and Toy Story. And even there's a collection to Jim Clark, interestingly, and s and SGI. So, yeah. So what he is known for, is, computer graphics and being again, follow the graph of the contributions back. And he's a very early contributor to, to digital video graphics, which I'll well, I'm sure we'll go into in great detail.
[Randy Shop] [18:52] But
[Bryan Can trill] [18:53] Yeah. I mean, and it's its almost understating it in terms of his I mean, he is he really he's at Xerox PARC. And, you know, Randy, I know that, you're a big fan, as am I, of Dealers of Lightning, the book on Xerox PARC. And the and I I I'm I'm sure you've read it many times, but the the the chapter on your dad, I think, is just extraordinary. And it's kind of amazing to me is that he is actually too revolutionary for Xerox PARC.
[Bryan Can trill] [19:24] And I think I was just kinda rereading it today, and I one thing I wanted to ask you because what he's doing in particular is he wants to build a colour display, which is absolute madness in this is, like, in what? Nineteen seventy-four or something like that?
[Randy Shop] [19:42] Yeah. They formed the lab. So he came out to Berkeley Computer Corporation in 1970. It collapsed Yeah. Exactly perfectly for him because Xerox was right then starting up a lab, you know, in Palo Alto called the Palo Alto Research Centre or PARC.
[Randy Shop] [19:56] And the first SIX or eight researchers that Bob Taylor seeded the lab with were people from, Berkeley Computer Corporation. So those include Chuck Thicker, Butler Sampson, my dad. Simone was at Berkeley Computer Corporation, but went elsewhere and then came back to PARC to do Bravo, which later became Microsoft Word. Right. And then Alan Kaye was immediately after those six.
[Bryan Can trill] [20:26] Just extraordinary. And then but your dad is at park with this kind of, like, this really personal mission that's a little bit outside the Alto. That's kind of like the know? Oh, yeah. And I mean, this must have occurred to you, but I definitely it occurred to me on reread that it's like your dad was like a park within park that in that like your dad was almost treated by Xerox PARC the way Xerox treated PARC.
[Bryan Can trill] [20:57] Oh my god.
[Randy Shop] [20:58] So frankly. That's I mean, obviously, I've thought about this for, you know, fifty years, but, Brian, you've said it, that's l that's you said it perfectly. That's exactly right. In exactly the same way to your point that Xerox, the centre, you know, big, Rochester, New York based copier company was like, who are all these crazy long haired California nutcases? And, basically didn't commercialize much of anything.
[Randy Shop] [21:26] We'll talk about it. They did pay back the lab with a laser printer, but they didn't commercialize any of the other things which included, graphical user interface, object-oriented programming in the form of small talk, the first word processor, which is Simone's bravo, Ethernet with Bob Metal.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:46] You just kept doing it? Like, Ethernet is like, oh, there's a fourth thing. Alright. Ethernet. Ethernet.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:51] Oh, yeah. By the way yeah.
[Randy Shop] [21:52] I mean, Ethernet's to your Ethernet's not even the first thing that comes out of my No.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:56] No. It's not even the first thing that comes to mind. It's just insane.
[Randy Shop] [21:58] Oh, and also email, and, touch screens. But other than that
[Bryan Can trill] [22:06] But other than that, exactly. Yeah. And it it but even but within that, your dad is too radical for the group. And that you's
[Adam Levinthal] [22:14] the nutcase's nutcase.
[Randy Shop] [22:16] He's the nutcase's nutcase. So I'll tell you the story. But, so, people should if they're all interested in this conversation, you should go by and read Dealers of Lightning, which is, 1999, book from Michael Hilton about Xerox PARC. There's an earlier one called Fumbling the Future, which is about the business thing that was written in the eighties. That's hard to get.
[Randy Shop] [22:35] But Dealers of Lightning is amazing. There's a there's a chapter, all about my dad, which is called the Pariahs. And okay. So, Bob Taylor forms this lab, and he came out of ARPA and the whole deal there, and was excellent at assembling really top-notch scientists, researchers, particularly computer people, and bringing them all together and getting them to do amazing things. And so that's why he, you know, that's why he was running the lab.
[Randy Shop] [23:06] Cool. And so he got all these people together. And his MO is basically tell people to find what's interesting to them, which he told to my dad, and then mould that interest over time so that everybody's all working just kind of in parallel, if that makes any sense or not in parallel, but, like, pointed in the same direction. Like timing? That makes sense.
[Randy Shop] [23:29] Yeah. Yeah. Convergent. Perfect. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [23:30] Yeah. So hit Bob Taylor's, you know, MO, again, I only met him maybe once or twice when I was very, very young. But so this is all, you know, hearsay or whatever Reed say. And, so he so, you know, he formed a lab with all these, like, you know, super top top-notch, freshly minted PhDs from around the country and figured that he could mould everyone and point them in the right direction. And he succeeded except one or two people, just my dad and another guy, Ally Ray Smith, who's the founder of Pixar.
[Randy Shop] [24:00] We'll get there. So my dad when they when my dad showed up, Taylor says, take a year to figure out what you want to do. And my dad Ally describes my dad in this wonderful phrasing. It's like, I guess I just reread it. It's like, he's kind of a crusty guy.
[Randy Shop] [24:18] He doesn't play politics, and he's very stubborn. And I was like, got it in one, Ally. There's a reason why you were dad's, best man that is, you know, when he remarried in 1990. They but they were the best of friends forever. And I'll tell you that whole story in a moment.
[Randy Shop] [24:36] Anyway, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [24:36] So Wendy, do you mind if I did is I just on the Alfie Ray Smith because Alfie Ray Smith arrives at Park. And do you mind if I just read out loud the two paragraphs from that chapter from Dealers of Lightning? Because I think that this is really very evocative of their relationship and kinda how extraordinary that time was.
[Randy Shop] [24:55] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [24:57] Park then was at a peak of creative ferment. Each day, some new feat of engineering appeared, virtually demanding to be shown off to anyone of the free moment. And here was Alfie Ray Smith, curious as a cat at large with time to spare. Shout fairly tingled with anticipation as he drove to the research centre the next morning. Seated next to him was the one man he knew possessed the temperament to get super paint.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:18] Sure enough, the machine hit Smith like a lightning bolt between the eyes. He came in the door and got completely entranced, Scrub remembered. He just deep ended right into it. For the next several days and nights, the bewitched artist scarcely left the lab for more than an hour or two at a time. I realized this is what I'd come to California for, Smith recalled.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:36] You could just see it was the future. And just to think that, like, that's the founder of Pixar, you know, in terms of, like, when he says being hit by a lightning bolt, this is a lightning bolt that has, like, has real ramifications for, like, this is, you know, we this is why, you know, you your three-year-old is singing, you know, so I want to build a snowman nonstop because it all starts here with a, you know, but just So let me
[Randy Shop] [26:00] let me motivate this for people who haven't done either haven't lived it or just done the research. So, super briefly, Bob Taylor constructed a lab out of these amazing people. He pointed all of them at the office of the future or something that the other, the like, chairman or CEO of Xerox said, the architecture of information. Nobody knew what that meant, including that guy. But but but, but everybody was excited about it.
[Randy Shop] [26:27] And so everybody so all the things that I mentioned, right, graphical user interface, object-oriented programming, Ethernet laser printer, all those things, you know, direct line to Office of the Future. So you could see how all that research, you know, combined. And it totally did in the Xerox Star, then the Apple Lisa, then finally the Mac. So we can see the direct thread, you know, from everybody else in the lab. My dad, again, because he was told he would have a year to think about it, he took it only took a month.
[Randy Shop] [26:57] But he's like, I want to do colour graphics, and I want to do video. So I want to be able to use this new cool technology called the frame buffer with these, with these new, massively new pieces of hardware called semiconductors made by a little tiny company in the valley called Intel. Yeah. And because they made memory then, not, wasn't even CPUs yet. And he wanted to construct the world's first, not the first paint program, but, like, he wanted to construct he wanted to combine a paint program, a few people have played with that, with a frame buffer, a few people have played with that, with being able to take in video at frame rate, 30 frames a second, manipulate it digitally in the frame buffer, and then send it out the other end at frame rate thirty frames a second.
[Randy Shop] [27:51] And so that's what he built. So he built a frame. So if you haven't heard of a frame buffer, it's very obvious what it is. You take a frame, and you put it in a buffer. And this particular buffer was intended to be exactly the what is it, six eighty by no.
[Randy Shop] [28:09] Six forty by four eighty-six for of it, which is a standard television, you know, ratio. And, so if you multiply that out, and you give yourself one byte, eight bits of colour, So 20, you know, 256, colour depth essentially. Then you multiply that out, it comes out to 300 and something a thousand, bytes. And so Intel was just shipping two kilobits, shift registers, put a pin in that, not DRAM, but shift registers. And the frame buffer that, dad built called, the system overall is called Super Paint.
[Randy Shop] [28:52] The frame buffer that was, you know, the core of the system was a bunch of these shift registers all chained together to be one long massive virtual shift register of 300 and some odd thousand bytes. And the way that it worked is associate it was like shifting along byte by byte chunk chunk. The video comes in, it gets manipulated, and it comes out raster scan. So people know how television works. Right?
[Randy Shop] [29:17] The raster scans one direction, then it scans the next direction, one lower, then it scans the next direction, one lower, etcetera, back and forth and back and forth. And that, snaky back and forth that the raster does was represented directly one byte each, in, in memory. And so the system, the paint system was all, manipulating those, those bits digitally. And so what was amazing this is 1973, '10 years eleven years before the Mac. Nineteen seventy-three, he gets this working in April.
[Randy Shop] [29:55] And the way that the system so anybody who's used any patent program has used exactly this metaphor invented. There you go. It works sort of. It used, used, anybody's used a patent program has used something, you know, exactly analogous to this. And it's basically the metaphors that he, in collaboration with few other people in the lab, came up with.
[Randy Shop] [30:18] So it's, one, part of it, it was actually one television screen. So one television was the canvas where it's where you draw and stuff, but the other was the, the palette. So you choose your colour, you choose your brush size and shape. You choose various effects, various animation effects, and then you go over using a stylus on a massive tablet as opposed to a mouse, but other stuff was done doing using a mouse at park. So you use a stylus on a tablet, and you go over into the onto the canvas, and you draw things.
[Randy Shop] [30:56] And that was the thing. So now I'm kind of now it's maybe motivating why Ally was so amazed. Alvy was, had a PhD in computer science. Also, he had been a mathematics professor at NYU, I want to say, had a terrible accident and then, like, totally rethought his life and got in his, I don't know, VW van or whatever it was and, like, you know, drove across the country to visit his pal, Dick Shop, and try to figure out what's next for his life. And, you know, that's the hit like a lightning bolt.
[Randy Shop] [31:29] You know what I mean? It was sort of, like, very fallow ground, if that makes any sense. You know, like, he was he was wrecked. I mean, he had all the like, again, PhD in computer science. The guy's a freaking rock star.
[Randy Shop] [31:40] And, so very ready to appreciate and understand all aspects of this from a computer science perspective. But also, he's a he's an artist and a painter, you know? So that's why that's why the clip or, you know, the quote that you gave, you know, my dad saying, you know, it was one person who could understand it. Again, understand it technically, but also really appreciate it artistically.
[Bryan Can trill] [32:04] And I dropped this image in the chat, but the image, it works, bang, underneath written, sort of. Your dad holding it above. And that is this is an image from the actual system. Right? I mean, this is the
[Randy Shop] [32:19] So yeah. Sorry. So, yeah, this is April 1973. So, obviously, nineteen seventies. Look at the can't, it's a gray scale, but it's flaming red hair.
[Randy Shop] [32:30] And, so this is the very first image that was taken by, Super Paint, and he had not yet debugged the so it's its using a data general 900, something like that. I don't know. Using some mini computer of the time, and,
[Bryan Can trill] [32:53] he
[Randy Shop] [32:53] has he hasn't that's it. Did you know him exactly right?
[Bryan Can trill] [32:56] Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [32:57] He, and he is, he has not, yet he's gotten the frame buffer, but he hasn't yet debugged or even hooked up the DG system. So he took this picture because he finally had the frame buffer working. He apparently needed to pull apart or put the clip leads back on with his knees so that he could get this image. So now so it's on, and the image is in memory and until, and before it degrades or whatever, he needs to because he wants to save it. He wants to he, like, now connects up the interface to the DG Nova and debugs it because it's super complicated and figures out how the interface works, and writes the code for it's like he's writing the code on the fly.
[Randy Shop] [33:43] I don't know, like some, you know, hacker stupid hacker movie. He's writing the interface code on the fly in, of course, machine code, to, to save this image, and it works, sort of.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:57] And this is, I mean, just and this is an extraordinary moment in the history of humanity, not to put I mean, this is like Alexander Graham Bell, mister Watson, come here. I want you. I mean, I feel it's like it's just in I mean, this is, a is a breakthrough. And I you know, the fact that he's having to, like, you know, manipulate it with his feet shows what I mean, he was working by himself on this, really. I mean, this is like Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [34:20] He def he definitely had help from a few other people in the lab, but everybody, you know, he's a pretty modest guy, but, yeah, he did it all himself. I mean, you know, he had a bunch of help on a few things from a guy, Bob Flagler in the lab and, Patrick Baudelaire, I want to say. But, but, yeah, he mostly did it himself. And, you know, he's 30 years old, at this point, not quite 30.
[Bryan Can trill] [34:41] Yeah. Oh, wow.
[Randy Shop] [34:43] And then Wow. Well we'll do all this if you want. But, like, fast-forward, he won an Emmy for this. Ten years later, television Emmy, and then he won an Academy Award, a Science and Technology Academy Award. So not an Oscar because it's not a statuette, but a Science and Technology Academy Award in 1998 for this work.
[Randy Shop] [35:01] And so, again, we mentioned Ally Ray Smith as being his, his collaborator and, like, his, you know, most excited fan or whatever. And they collaborated for a number of years at PARC. And then, you know, over time, people left to go found their own things, including Alfie. So Alfie went to, New York Institute of Technology and, hooked up with Ed Catmull, who had been doing graphics at Utah. And then they ultimately, got themselves, acquired into become the computer group at Lucasfilm.
[Randy Shop] [35:34] Lucasfilm. And then, let's see. Then they did, they were hoping they were planning to do something for Empire Strikes Back, but, Lucas didn't want to. They did do something for Return of the Jedi, but their famous calling card was the Star Trek two Wrath of Khan 1982 Genesis effect. So people will remember watching the Wrath of Khan, will remember the Genesis device.
[Randy Shop] [36:00] It's it takes a dead world and turns it into something living. So, so that whole it's like a two-minute sequence is the first fully computer generated animation sequence in a major motion picture. And with that calling card, they ended up doing a bunch more Lucasfilm. They spun themselves out as Pixar. Steve Jobs got involved.
[Randy Shop] [36:27] Toy Story, back to just, you know, acquired by Disney later in life. But that's, you know, super that's a super quick thread there. But yeah. Oh, and the and sorry. Let me just finish this up.
[Randy Shop] [36:39] Sorry. Yeah. How did so the television Emmy was a thing that, you know, Super Paint was used in a bunch of television things, including by NASA for the Pioneer Venus mission in '77, the Pioneer Saturn mission in '78. So, like, it was known in television that this thing existed, but he wasn't, but dad never did anything in movies. Right?
[Randy Shop] [37:01] So why would the academy, you know, award him a lifetime achievement award? Well, it was with Ally and another guy, Tom Porter from Pixar. And it was because in 1998, the academy went to the Pixar folks and said, we would like to give you a lifetime achievement award. We think you've earned for Toy Story and the whole deal. And Ally, to his great credit, says, sir, happy to take that, but you also have to find this crazy guy, Dick Scrub, and give him the same award because Super paint, because this inspiration, and so on.
[Randy Shop] [37:34] So
[Bryan Can trill] [37:35] Which I think is, I mean, such inspiring in so many different dimensions. Because I mean, I think that, like, the, you know, the kind of people the way people commonly think of Park as, you know, Steve Jobs kind of descends upon Park and realizes that they're gonna kinda fumble the future, and and and does the Lisa and like, and the kind of the kind of the narrative is this kind of not giving credit where it's due, perhaps to to to the Alto. And I just I kinda love this, like, other narrative of this kind of park within park. This person is to renegade for the rest of park. Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:11] That Bob Taylor's like, what are you doing over here? Like, what this is not this is not when I said pick anything that you want, this is not what I meant. This
[Randy Shop] [38:21] is I didn't actually mean it literally. Oh my god. I'm sure that was exactly the conversation that was had with my dad many, many times. And, again, like, to quote Ally, like, he's very stubborn.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:31] Right. Well, he and I mean, so Bob Taylor is an enormous, like, inspiration to me personally in terms of, like, the way he got people to take on really hard problems, I think is really inspirational. And I can definitely understand, like, the Bob Taylor perspective of this of, like, look, I mean, yeah, we're trying to, like, we're, you know, we're we're pretty crazy, but, like, we're not that great. You're you're actually you're kinda two hills further ahead of us in a way that is, like, really tough. But I and I also just love this kind of the fact that Ally Ray Smith really wanted to make sure that, like, your dad got the credit that he was due, that this was it was not about, like, stealing the work of someone else or or or I mean, I just I think it's really, and I mean, when I say, like, I mean, that is just it's that's an it is a great Silicon Valley story in terms of, very inspiring.
[Randy Shop] [39:20] Yeah. It's exactly the opposite of the current, those articles we were talking about in the beginning. Right? So, like, Ally could have said, yeah. I invented, you know, computer animation.
[Randy Shop] [39:31] And, like, he wouldn't have entirely been wrong. Right? But every time he's interviewed, I mean, any Google anything that Ally says about his background, he will, in the first paragraph, say, yeah, I was really inspired to your know, I was doing a bunch of graphics, and I was interested in this area. But, you know, until I saw Super paint and got inspired by Dick Scrub, you know, I didn't see I didn't see how it would be the next, whatever, multiple decades of my life. You
[Bryan Can trill] [39:57] know, and, and yeah.
[Randy Shop] [39:58] And yeah. So I mean, exactly. Credit where credit is due, but in a wonderful I mean, Alfie's wonderful. Like, a wonderfully humble and, I don't know, confident, if that makes any sense. Like, Alfie Ally's got accolades up and down and left and right.
[Randy Shop] [40:13] Like, he
[Bryan Can trill] [40:13] does his He yeah. I mean, he's like, I'm not worried about, like, I'm not taking anything away from myself by sharing by giving credit where it's due. Like, I've yeah. I've got total self-confidence. I also feel like that there's something really about the fact that, you know, there at the moment, right, like, I know what the before times were like.
[Bryan Can trill] [40:33] I know what the after Like, I was there when this was created. This is not, and I think one of the challenges that we've got in Silicon Valley, and this maybe this has been true at different times in Silicon Valley's history, but this idea of and you see people who have inherited wealth, who pretend that they built it themselves. It's like, everyone should, you know, it's like, well, you didn't build the stuff that you're talking about. And, you know, you like, when you say Silicon Valley built the modern world, why shouldn't we run it? It's like, who
[Randy Shop] [41:03] are you? I'm sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:03] Right. Right. Is that Bob Taylor saying this? This Yeah. Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:07] Exactly. Bob Noyce? Is this are you Gordon Moore? Are you I mean, sorry? You didn't build any of this stuff.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:14] You put a hair into it, pal.
[Randy Shop] [41:15] Yeah. No. That's that's a % true.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:18] Like, this is daddy's money. And, you know, you and I get it. Like, on the one hand, you know, I want to allow people their own, like, search for meaning and, like but, I mean, come on. I mean and I I I feel that, you know, we all have kind of a challenge of, like, when we've got this kind of great contributions that kinda come before us and how do we get kind of inspired by those and build the next thing while still understanding how fortunate we are for those, you know, the that kind of ancestry that solved all these hard problems.
[Randy Shop] [41:51] Yeah. Look, everything in a modern computer I mean, you know more than anybody, you guys, at Oxide. Right? Everything in the modern computer setup, any modern computing system, is layer upon layer of outrageous invention and discovery and science and hard work and, you know, perspiration in addition to inspiration. Like, the multiple every layer is, like, there's somebody whose life's work was that thing.
[Randy Shop] [42:22] And we have now I'm making this up, and you would know, like, okay. There's a hundred layers or whatever. Right? Like, every single you're right. You know what I mean?
[Randy Shop] [42:30] Like, every single, and you're, like, that's only the firmware.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:33] It's like You know, when also, like, on the one hand, it is kinda like, okay. No more layers, please. Like, I need I need because the other thing that we've discovered in, of course, in oxide is then, like, you get down to enough layers and then the world goes analog again. You're like, what's this? It's like, oh, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:48] Sorry. Digital's a lie. Wait. What do you mean digital's a lie? It's like, no.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:51] No. That's what you saw for people need digital, so we created, but it's actually this is an analog system. You're like, that is extremely unfortunate. So, yeah, the layers never stop. There there there's a there is an infinity of layers, but, yeah, just to your point, Randy, like, the, you know, when you get into, like, build building these things, you get that kind of reverence for all the stuff that comes before you.
[Randy Shop] [43:12] Yeah. Yeah. And I think, you know, there's I'm I'm not I'm not unaware of the like, self-serving aspect of this, But, like, I do not think that people today fully understand how much of current software systems that they work with owe everything to park. Right? And again, not even my dad.
[Randy Shop] [43:33] Right? Like, again, my dad to your point, and it's correct is like an offshoot of an offshoot. Like, he, you know, his work, as he would say, did not figure in the main line of Alto to star to Lisa to Mac, etcetera. I'm like, that's fine. He was he felt happy with what he did.
[Randy Shop] [43:50] But I think it is way underappreciated by particularly the younger generations. Right? You know, get off my lawn. How much in 1973 was there? And it took if it was so far ahead.
[Randy Shop] [44:05] I mean, it took ten years minimum. The IBM PC came out and there was nothing graphical about it. Right? That's ten years. So Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [44:14] It took till the Mac and, you know, amazing, but still and this was, you know, quite the long like, the part people were looking at going, a, we had that ten years ago, and, b, what a toy. You know, ultimately, not one. And, you know, breadth versus depth, if that makes any sense. Like, right? I mean, it went it is went viral and did the personal computer that Alan Kay wanted to build.
[Randy Shop] [44:37] But, yeah, I just don't think, you know, I just think I don't think we appreciate enough the giants upon whose shoulders we stand, if that makes sense.
[Bryan Can trill] [44:45] I totally agree with you. And so one question I've got with you too about in terms of, like, the breakthrough because of the two me, the breakthroughs at park are not merely technological, but they're also cultural and organizational. And these are breakthroughs that I'm and this is maybe a good segue to kind of your own career. Well, first, I've got I mean, this is a little intimidating to have this as I I I mean, this is, like, no pressure, by the way, but, like, aren't you Dick Shops kid? Like, you know, I'm I'm I'm kind of like, what was it like growing up in the shadow of that?
[Bryan Can trill] [45:21] Or or does is this like this is actually this is actually a relief that this is it stands so tall that I actually don't have to worry about, like, my own sense of intimidation. What was it like?
[Randy Shop] [45:34] Yeah. I mean, all of the above. So, when I was growing up, I saw I was always interested in math and computers, and I didn't appreciate how different it was to I mean, no one appreciates how different their family is until they have experience with other families later in life. Right? So I didn't know it was weird to be a five-year-old and to beg your dad to take you to work on the weekends, which I totally did.
[Randy Shop] [46:00] So my parents were my parents were divorced when I was four, but dad was around and, we, my brother and I would be with him on weekends most of the time. And he would work because, hey, he liked to work. And we could not have been happier to go to park because when we were when we were babies or even babies, not babies. When we were little, we used to play in the beanbag conference room and make forts. And then later on, really, in retrospect, his was the only work that would appeal to, like, a five or six-year-old.
[Randy Shop] [46:29] Right? So he's building this. Right. Right.
[Adam Levinthal] [46:31] You were getting screen time before any other kid was getting screen time.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:34] That's right.
[Randy Shop] [46:35] I yeah. And I and I didn't know that again, like, wait. Don't you beg your dad to take it? No. My dad's a teacher.
[Randy Shop] [46:42] Like, yeah. So, you know, we would beg him to take us to, to work and, you know, we would, again, play in the beanbag, room when we were younger. And then, there was a Star Trek simulator thing, which, of course, we love to play. And then as, my dad's stuff with super paint came along, yeah, we would drop pictures of spaceships, and then we would print them on the laser printer in colour. Oh my god.
[Randy Shop] [47:11] And so the one time he told me not to, like, divulge anything was when we printed out the colour, thing from the laser printer, he's like, maybe don't show this to anybody from IBM.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:25] And what year is that? I re
[Randy Shop] [47:28] gosh. Let's see. Maybe '77.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:32] Oh, my god.
[Adam Levinthal] [47:33] I'm just imagining my seven-year-old showing up with, like, a laser printed drawing and just can't like, imagine, I just can't even imagine what it would be like to bring that to school in that era. It's like walking in with a bar of gold or something. Just, just unimaginable riches.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:53] Yeah. Or or or the company just go into hovercraft. I mean, this is, like, 1977. The the is, like, the laser printer would not be broadly commercialized for another decade, and that's black and white. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:04] I mean, like, you mean, I remember, like, literally seeing the first laser printed thing by the a, a friend whose father was a software engineer, had a laser printer at work. And I printed this thing out, had the laser printed, whatever, like, an agenda for a scout meeting or whatever it was. And I remember, like, just my eye I mean, just eye-popping.
[Adam Levinthal] [48:28] No perforations on the edges. No. You're evil.
[Randy Shop] [48:31] Yeah. Right. Right. So, it was a dot matrix.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:33] Contrast, like, a dot matrix printer to a laser printer. You're like, this is like you took this to a professional printer? It just doesn't make sense. I mean, it was and that was in, like, 1987. I mean, it's like in 1977, you had and it was a black and white.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:49] I mean, I just think that, like I think I mean, you literally start a religion on the spot. Like, no joke. You'd be like, you like, you Randy, like, I think you had the opportunity to be a prophet. I think you could have been, like Oh,
[Randy Shop] [49:01] so many missed opportunities.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:03] You could have been, like, the the the Randy Fabians. Like, didn't they thought that it was, like, a wayn't there, like, a ritual. It wasn't or something that they did. No. No.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:09] No. The Randy Fabians were the but They
[Randy Shop] [49:12] were they prayed to the laser printed, Absolutely. Gods.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:17] The spaceship gods. I would have a % would have prayed to the spaceship gods. If you showed me a colour laser printer in 1977, that is absolutely Yeah. Unthinkable. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:27] Yeah. Unthinkable. It is unthinkable. I there is no modern analog that's gonna, wow. That is amazing.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:34] I also love that you're, like, making beanbag forts in Xerox Park. I mean, at what point were you, I mean, in your kind of you know, so you you you obviously, you grow up in the Bay Area, you grow up in Mountain View, or I get where you're at San Jose. Bay the Palo Alto and San Jose. Palo Alto. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:53] At what point were you just like, wait a minute. That was Xerox Park that I was I mean, you must or did you maybe you had the sense of gravitas at the time. But, No.
[Randy Shop] [50:02] I really didn't. I mean, yeah. I mean, when you're a kid, you're a kid. You thinks you know, whatever your experience is seems normal. So I only really it only real I mean, I knew it intellectually, maybe in let's call it in junior high and high school, but it didn't really hit me maybe until college or later just how very, very different, you know, that experience was.
[Randy Shop] [50:24] Right? Yeah. I mean, again, you know, we all, you know, we all stand on shoulders of giants. Anyway, but you're asking
[Bryan Can trill] [50:31] the question. Making beanbag forts in, like, Faneuil Hall or something. I'm like, I'm trying to what is the analog for this? It's like, it is it is it kind of anyway, it defies analog. It's its just really
[Randy Shop] [50:41] extraordinary. I mean, I don't have this is only an analogy that I just thought of, and I don't know if it works. But you could one could imagine growing up in a royal family. And so this was not our case. You know, we were we were very middle class.
[Randy Shop] [50:57] You know, one thing dad never did was make a huge pile of money, which is, you know, fine. He had a great he had a great life. But yeah. No. I mean, I guess if you're talking you guys are reacting in the way that you're reacting.
[Randy Shop] [51:09] And the only thing I can think of that comes immediately to mind is, you know, somebody that grows up in some, like, actual castle. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [51:16] And I was like, Oh.
[Randy Shop] [51:17] Well, you know, I walked out, and we had the the the horse carers, you know, brought the horse for the day, and then I rode
[Bryan Can trill] [51:25] Right.
[Randy Shop] [51:25] Rode it and blah blah blah.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:27] Or I'm in
[Adam Levinthal] [51:27] the presence of Sasha and Malia. You know, like
[Randy Shop] [51:29] There you go.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:30] Coming to
[Randy Shop] [51:30] baseball. Yeah. Exactly. Whatever. What yeah.
[Randy Shop] [51:32] Show and tell. Big fans of the pod.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:34] Big fans of the pod. Those two.
[Adam Levinthal] [51:35] That's right. Call anytime. You'll, we'll have you on.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:38] Exactly. Love the baseball one. Absolute big ballers fans. Those two.
[Randy Shop] [51:43] So anyway, you do ask quick I'll just quickly answer, like, what how much of a conflict or in terms of expectations. And as I like to quote from the Tom Maria of Car Talk, happiness is reality minus expectations. So expectations were higher. I mean, look, I already tick all the privilege boxes. Right?
[Randy Shop] [52:07] You know, white male, hetero, grow up in a strong economy, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick. You know, so the expectation should already be higher. But, yeah, you know, debt set a pretty high bar. And also, he never I don't know how to feel about this, to be honest. He never once placed any expectation on me or my brother.
[Randy Shop] [52:34] And part of me, it's like, wait, you don't think it could be as good? It's like, well, maybe not. So, you know, it kinda goes both ways, I suppose.
[Bryan Can trill] [52:44] Yeah. That's why but did you know is I mean, you're interested in this stuff. Did you have any reticence about going into computer science?
[Randy Shop] [52:52] Yeah. Actually, so I didn't. Yeah. So my, and this wasn't because I was scared away, but I just thought my talents were elsewhere. So, very briefly in high school, I did debate.
[Randy Shop] [53:03] And so, like, all but one other person I can think of who is, you know, that I knew from high school debate, I was planning on becoming a lawyer. And I wanted I was super interested in international relations and, you know, that time's height of the Cold War. So I was really interested in reducing the tens of thousands of nuclear weapons that, you know, The US and The Soviet Union had pointed at each other. And so that was a real thing that I really cared about. And, so my things don't always work out as you expect when you're a kid.
[Randy Shop] [53:35] So if you asked me at 13 all the way through to 23, I would have said my career is to be an international lawyer. It turns out that, so I majored in political science at Stanford. But I also wanted to study math and computers because I was always interested in them. And thankfully, Stanford didn't have minors when I went because otherwise, I would have gotten a minor and fine. But instead, the only way to do it seriously was to double major in mathematical and computational science, which it was like nobody took did that.
[Randy Shop] [54:03] It was like a handful of us in that major. It not wasn't the computer science major. Even then that was not that many. I hear it's like the, you know, a third of the school is now
[Bryan Can trill] [54:12] computer science major. Right? I
[Randy Shop] [54:13] mean, not even joking. Not even joking. So now the major that I had is the data science major. But Oh, interesting. But anyway, whatever.
[Randy Shop] [54:20] So I had so I had you double majored in the two things. And then during, during school for another weird set of coincidences, I ended up interning at, Intel for several summers, and so got a taste of as a software engineer, so I got a taste of doing software at Intel.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:37] So you were interning in even though you were a pole sci concentrator, because you'd taken enough computer science courses, or you'd, you were able to and realized, like, okay. This is what I want to do with my
[Randy Shop] [54:45] I did not ever lie, but I bluffed as hard as I possibly could.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:50] Yeah. So I will
[Randy Shop] [54:51] I will tell the story because it's funny. So my roommate, sophomore year was a double e. Weirdly, he studied double e and is now a lawyer. I was planning to be a lawyer, and now I'm a computer guy. So Love it.
[Randy Shop] [55:04] I don't know where Stan z went is wrong, and I went right, or She's a different guy. Yeah. We were we crossed the streams and went entirely different direction. Anyway, so Stan was a double e and very good at it. And so, I'm reading one of my pole sci books, and he sets the phone down in the room, and he says, hey, this is weird.
[Randy Shop] [55:21] I said, what? He's like, well, you know how I just got and this is like fall of the sophomore year. He's like, you know, I just got an internship at Intel for the summer. I'm like, yes. And he says, well, I just got another.
[Randy Shop] [55:31] I'm like, what? And the story was the guy so he had, applied to several. A guy said, please, hire Stan and then went on vacation for three weeks. And then when he came back, he, you know, he said to the whatever executive assistant or whoever, hey, did you hire Stan? And, like, forgot to do that.
[Randy Shop] [55:52] Anyway, so they called Stan back.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:53] After lied, but I did go by Stan for two summers.
[Randy Shop] [55:58] No. Not quite. So,
[Adam Levinthal] [56:00] I just responded to Stan. I didn't tell you that. That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [56:04] It is your inference that my name is Stan because you called out Stan and I responded. That is like, that's on you.
[Randy Shop] [56:09] That's right. No. I did it I did it above board. So Stan had already taken another job, another internship at Intel. And so he said, do you know anybody who would want this internship?
[Randy Shop] [56:18] And I was like, well, I you had applied at the arms control centre, you know, to work over the summer, but they haven't gotten back to me. So sure, let me, you know, let me talk to them. And so I ended up, you know, working really hard on talking about all the math classes that I had taken and, you know, the the the limited computer science and, you know, really tried to, impress upon the guy who became my boss that, I could learn things and, oh, by the way, my dad does this stuff, so whatever. And, anyway, so
[Bryan Can trill] [56:50] he later Oh, I am okay. I definitely have a question on this. No. Because, like, dropping the dad references is gutsy. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [56:57] That can backfire big time on you.
[Adam Levinthal] [56:58] Totally.
[Bryan Can trill] [56:59] The I I I I
[Randy Shop] [57:01] didn't know. If all I knew was this is a like, hey. I've been around computers for a long time. My dad used to do this thing. And,
[Bryan Can trill] [57:08] So my analog to this actually is I sliced my nose skiing. So I I I was skiing and I was kinda midair and deep snow. I come out of my boots and fly, and I know my skis are still going, and they come up behind me and slice my nose. My skis did.
[Randy Shop] [57:27] Oh, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [57:27] And so I'm bleeding kind of profusely out of my nose, which is just like a lot of blood. And I need to go get stitched up. So I'm in the the the Tahoe emergency the Trucked clinic there. I'm about, and I'm about to get stitched up. And, the And actually, I mean, in some strange ways.
[Bryan Can trill] [57:46] So my father's an emergency medical physician. And emergency medicine is actually, like computer science, is very young. And my father ended up being, working in one of the first residency programs in emergency medicine and for the pioneer really of emergency medicine, Peter Rosen. And he, they were writing the book on emergency medicine. He's just doling out chapters to these, like, kids.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:12] And my father ended up writing the chapter, well, wrote a bunch of chapters, but one of the ones is on facial lacerations. Yeah. And so here I am with a facial laceration, and I'm like, do and one thing I definitely knew is the scarring that you're going to get is based solely on the hands that are on you. It is the if is someone is paying attention and has got is is dexterous, you will not have a scar. And if they aren't, you will have a scar.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:40] So I'm like, I have got kind of like a very limited window. Like, do I name-drop this or not? And the needle is coming at my nose as this guy's going to stitch me up. And I'm like, suddenly, this could backfire. Like, what is kind of a snotty thing to say?
[Bryan Can trill] [58:55] Being like, oh, by the way, have you heard of my dad? But I'm also like, but this could be a scar I could have, like, on my nose for the rest. I could be, like, known as Scar Nose for the rest of my life. You know? So I'm like, You know, it's funny.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:07] And he kind of stops. He's like, What's funny? I'm like, Well, you know, here I am. I've got a facial laceration. Furthermore, I'm in the emergency room.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:14] I've got a facial laceration. Just a regular Cantrip. Just a regular guy with a facial laceration. And, you know, it's funny because my father actually wrote the chapter in Rosengarten on facial lacerations. And he's like, Oh.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:29] And you could just see And I'm like, It's backfiring. This is a mistake. Like, I could just see the guy is like, Are you fucking kidding me? Like, what are okay. And he says, who's your father?
[Bryan Can trill] [59:40] I'm like, Steve Enter. I said, oh, Steve Enter from Colorado General. And he had done a residency. He'd been in Colorado General. And I'm like, oh my god.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:47] Okay. Okay. This is like diving catch though. Like, total diving catch. And I'm like, this could have, like so you Ray, did you have any of the same nervousness?
[Bryan Can trill] [59:55] I'm like, do I mention that I'm like that I'm that I'm related to Dick Shop. Do I how would I do this?
[Randy Shop] [01:00:02] Yeah. I wasn't so strategic. I just thought I was trying to get an internship. And, and, anyway, it ultimately worked. So and and it later, Bob Chen, who was my boss there at Intel, was like, yeah, I could read that you didn't really he didn't quite say it this way, but you didn't really know what you were doing, but you really impressed upon me that you were willing to learn.
[Randy Shop] [01:00:23] And, so I liked your attitude.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00:26] I thought that's great. Yeah. I mean, that's that's important. And so what did you do for Intel? Were you because you were at Intel for a couple of summers?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00:31] Right? A couple
[Randy Shop] [01:00:32] of summers. Yeah. I worked, I worked in a mask shop. So for you guys know, I know. But for the others, a mask is the for to make semiconductors, you need this big glass plate that you write you draw the outline of the circuit on there, and then you shine the now it's X-ray light, but then UV through that thing, and it makes a shadow, and it changes the chemistry of the thing you're writing on, and then you etch it away blah blah blah.
[Randy Shop] [01:00:59] Anyway, so Underneath.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:00] For those of you who are looking to learn more about either the photo lithography or then e v it's e v lithography and e v lithography. Yeah. I'm sorry.
[Randy Shop] [01:01:08] No. No worries. Anyway, so yeah. The, so the mask shop Intel did that in the house, you know, and it was a pretty small group, and they needed people to write software tools to help them do statistical process control for, for the machines, and just a bunch of software tool you know, just a bunch of software tools. So it was I got a lot of playing around with Oracle databases and writing, yeah, writing queries and graphs and so on for the technicians and the engineers to do their job.
[Randy Shop] [01:01:42] So, I had a great time. And it was a great group of people, really, really fun. So I did that after sophomore summer, then after junior summer, and then I actually worked part-time as, like, a flexible work hours employee, like an actual part-time employee, not an intern or, for senior year. So I would take classes, Monday, Wednesday, Friday at Stanford, then I would drive down to Santa Clara to, work Tuesday, Thursday all day.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:09] And at what point is law school beginning to lose its appeal?
[Randy Shop] [01:02:12] Oh, not yet. Not yet. So I am actually Okay. What? Okay.
[Randy Shop] [01:02:16] So, very briefly. So let's say I graduated. I did not want to go straight to law school because most people don't. So I worked for Oracle, for two years as a software engineer. That was great.
[Randy Shop] [01:02:26] Had a great time. And then much to the chagrin and surprise of my compatriots and manager, I'm like, okay, now is the time to take the GRE and the LSAT and, you know, get all set to go to law school and international relations school. And everybody looked at me like I was crazy. And I said, hey, I've been telling you for two years. This is what's going to happen.
[Randy Shop] [01:02:43] So I
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:44] So, again, we wouldn't take you seriously, obviously.
[Randy Shop] [01:02:47] I should I should be taken most seriously and literally when I tell you when I tell you that. Anyway, so, yeah. So, apply to, law school and international relations school. I end up starting a program which is a joint Stanford Law, Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, master's. Normally, three years plus two years.
[Randy Shop] [01:03:07] If you combine it, it's four. So I started and the way that you do it is you do like a year of law school, then a year of the IR school, and then back and forth semester by semester. Wow. Anyway, so I did the first, I did the first year at Stanford Law School. It was fine.
[Randy Shop] [01:03:23] And then I took the took an they would call it a summer associateship. So, you know, an internship for law students over the summer, and it should have been the perfect job, and I hated it. So it was the small office in on Sand Hill Road, of a so a big New York firm called Well, Gotcha, and Banjos, a tiny, Silicon Valley branch office that did what's called patent prosecution, which is getting people patents. It's not about suing.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:50] Oh, yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:03:51] Yeah. And so what I thought it would be and again, on Silicon Valley Road, I was on a Sand Hill Road, like, right next to all the VCs at that very last right before 280 on the right-hand side when you're going north, that whole complex there. It's a bunch of VCs that are still there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:10] Anyway, that's KP is still there, but a bunch of them are still right
[Randy Shop] [01:04:13] still right there. There you go. I've I've visited several Sharon Heights.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:15] Long time. Heights Shopping Centre. I know it. I'd say it's like the waiting room for Silicon Valley. It's Starbucks in the Sharon Heights.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:21] Even shopping centre.
[Randy Shop] [01:04:22] Even farther away. So, like, really right in the very if you're gone from Sharon Heights to 2 I know.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:27] I know. It's just it's like literally there is no retail establishment between Sharon Heights and those offices at the intersection of San Diego.
[Randy Shop] [01:04:35] It's a view. Because it's all, like, VC, VC, VC, VC. Firms.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:39] Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:04:40] Anyway, so, small office. It was casual dress, which was very unheard of for people in, lawyers in 1993. But, you know, hey, our clients were dressed in business casual. So we were too. Really liked the attorneys, but I just hated every minute of getting people patents.
[Randy Shop] [01:05:00] And what so anybody who's been involved in a patent on either side, it is the inventor is up there on the whiteboard describing his or her amazing invention. And the lawyer is a scribe who writes down diligently all the things that the amazing inventor has invented and then does bureaucratic infighting with the patent office to get a patent. And so every moment, it was so painful for me to be sitting at the conference table looking at somebody designing or outlining their design on the whiteboard where it's like, I want to be that person. I don't want to be this person. And, that was a big, soul-searching for me that summer because, hey, I've been telling people and myself wasn't lying.
[Randy Shop] [01:05:44] I didn't think so. For ten years, this is what I want to do. And, oh my god, I now I have exactly what I've always wanted, you know, the combination of the two interests and I hated it. So I'm immediately thinking, okay, well, what if I finish up law school and IR school, I go in house at a technology company, maybe in ten years they give me a technology group to run, and I'm like, oh my god. You're an idiot.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:07] You can't cut whoops.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:06:08] I, you know, I didn't
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:09] wanna I didn't want to put my thumb on the scale on that one, but No.
[Randy Shop] [01:06:12] No. No. Anyway, long story short, it's you know, it was so obvious what needed to happen, but it took me a long time to get comfortable with it, if that makes sense. So, yeah, so I never so I never went back. So I, you know, I stopped out as Stanford says, never finished the never went to the Johns Hopkins.
[Randy Shop] [01:06:29] I never completed law school. And I have never once ever regretted that decision.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:06:36] I would say this sounds like the most successful internship I've ever heard of.
[Randy Shop] [01:06:39] Oh, my God.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:06:40] To provide absolute life clarity.
[Randy Shop] [01:06:43] Life clarity internship. And Adam, to your exact point, if it had been anything else other than the otherwise perfect job on paper and after my first year summer, I would have continued on because, like, oh, it is a formal dress or, you know, whatever. Right. Right. Right.
[Randy Shop] [01:07:01] Right. Right. Right. Right. Right.
[Randy Shop] [01:07:02] It was it's a big firm that's all faceless or, you know, tick, tick, tick. I, you know, I would have looked for just because, you know, I'm a human. Like, I had this plan. I was going to execute the plan. So, yeah, all, if it had been anything other than perfect and early.
[Randy Shop] [01:07:21] Because the other thing is, like, oh, this is my whole life is going to be terrible, but, hey, I'm already halfway through the program.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:07:25] Some customers.
[Randy Shop] [01:07:26] I may as totally, totally I've already done
[Adam Levinthal] [01:07:28] this for a year and a half, so I might as well spent the next thirty years on this.
[Randy Shop] [01:07:31] Yeah. Well, yeah. And there are a lot of people that come out of law school and never wanna practice and don't. And, you know, you can do other things. But it would have been hard for me to go back to being a software engineer, which I did do.
[Randy Shop] [01:07:43] So I, I finished that up, and, I went and begged for my job back at Intel. And my great friend and mentor, Girish Lanka, who just retired from being CEO of Streamlets, Welcome you back with open arms and,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:02] At Intel. So you were
[Randy Shop] [01:08:03] No. No. At Oracle. At Oracle.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:05] At Oracle. Yeah. Yeah. I actually I was going to say, I couldn't tell if you're being sarcastic or not about your time at Oracle, but it sounds like that was not sarcasm that
[Randy Shop] [01:08:10] that No. Oracle. So
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:11] so It was it's okay. You're in a safe space. You we you know, we can accommodate all Make
[Randy Shop] [01:08:15] it is safer, Brian. Make it safer. There are Yeah. So it is both true
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:21] We can get all this out.
[Randy Shop] [01:08:22] Oracle overall. If it is both true that Oracle overall, even at that time in the early nineties, was, you know, you don't want to be a partner with them. I I I have a sidebar to say about making your customers your enemy and is that a perfect business strategy? But I loved my little group. So, all of them were all of them were great friends.
[Randy Shop] [01:08:47] You know, they were all groomsmen in my wedding and, like, my best friends, for what's this now, thirty-five years, are all the people that were on Team Browser. And so we built a this is before Web Browser, so that was only '95. This was 1990. We built an ad hoc query tool, which was called Oracle Data Browser.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:11] And,
[Randy Shop] [01:09:12] it was, it was all bitmap graphics, and you used, you graphically built your query out of little boxes and lines. You know, imagine an entity relationship diagram, and then it was a spreadsheet output.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:09:28] So it was Freddie, when you bring this home and show it to your dad, it's like That did he laugh. I mean, yeah. It's like Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:35] Yeah. Look. We look.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:09:36] I our intern at PARC did that. You know?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:40] Right. Yeah. Twenty years ago. I feel like I'm looking ten years into the future. No.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:43] I don't. No. I don't think I was in. I mean,
[Adam Levinthal] [01:09:45] ten years into the past. Excuse me.
[Randy Shop] [01:09:47] Yeah. Right? Yeah. Because right. So, let's see.
[Randy Shop] [01:09:50] That was, so I graduated That
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:52] was very forward-looking, honestly. If the because that isn't so you said that was in 1990. So that is in Yeah. And Oracle was a much smaller company then. This is like a was.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:05] How many employees were at Oracle? I mean, this is, like, probably
[Randy Shop] [01:10:08] less than I'd have to look. Thousands. Maybe less than 10,000. Probably less than probably less than 10,000. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:10:14] That's probably about right. Yeah. Yeah. The funny thing about, going to work for Oracle in 1990 and graduating from Stanford then is I hope they have changed this policy. But at the time, the policy was, Oracle only hires from these whatever eight schools, and you can imagine what they are.
[Randy Shop] [01:10:34] And they the very explicit recruiting strategy was we will hire smart people no matter what, and we'll put them in any place that they're willing to do the job. So I had it was well known and well, leveraged among my graduating class that, like, if you had a heartbeat in a Stanford degree, you could work at Oracle. So Oh, interesting. So there was a part of me okay. And, you know, I had people who are, like, amazing people in my pole sci classes, like, totally amazing people now in the school now in actual foreign service.
[Randy Shop] [01:11:07] Oh, yeah. Receptionists at Oracle. You know, it was their first job. And, so that was actually a potential downside for me because it's like, hey. We devalued this whole thing by, like, anybody from Stanford could come here.
[Randy Shop] [01:11:21] But, I made myself feel good, and it was actually true that they actually for the engineering group, it was, like, a little more rigorous, if
[Bryan Can trill] [01:11:31] that makes any sense. Well, I mean, this is just in general true at Oracle. But the closer you are to the database, the more technically interesting it is. And so, you know, that is their core product. And I think especially that time, that
[Randy Shop] [01:11:42] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:11:42] What you were up to, I mean, that is, that's and so you all make this kind of graphical data browser that, again, is, like, is ahead of its time. And when you kind of so you're able to get your job back at Oracle. And then how long do you stay how long do you stay there?
[Randy Shop] [01:12:00] Yeah. I was there for a total of seven years from 1991 to '97. And you can forget about the year I was away, I suppose, at law school. And yeah. And so, after that, I went to a company called Tumbleweed, which did, security software, worked there ultimately as chief architect and a technical fellow for about six years, brief stint at Informatics, which does, you know, data warehousing, etcetera, data integration.
[Randy Shop] [01:12:30] And then I joined eBay for the first time. 02/2004 to 02/2011, I worked as an individual contributor on eBay's real time search engine. So at the know, now real time search, you get that for free with Elastic. Everybody has it. It's easy.
[Randy Shop] [01:12:46] It's nobody, as far as I can tell and find, nobody was doing real time all in memory search in, 02/2004. So I didn't invent that, but I got
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:58] about that era because in so we obviously go to the .com boom and bust
[Randy Shop] [01:13:03] and Oh, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:05] I mean, in the bust was a thermonuclear event around here. I mean, it was an It was
[Randy Shop] [01:13:10] very busty. It
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:11] was very deep.
[Randy Shop] [01:13:13] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:14] And I mean, I was you remember the the remember that excited home facility on the 101 that went from, like, absolutely nothing, went from, like, wetlands to a new construction to full parking lot to empty parking lot with, like, rocks thrown through the windows to add to abandon all within, like, eighteen months. Yeah. And then it was abandoned for a long time before it ultimately became, I think, a Stanford building. But they
[Randy Shop] [01:13:41] Yeah. Yeah. I so I blew past that in my, so I was a tumbleweed through the up and the downof.com. So, again, that's 02/2000.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:55] And did you think about, like, at that point, do you or do you just know so resolutely something I knew resolutely then that, like, this industry is my this is my calling. Like, I'm not there's no amount of bust that's going to get me to do something else.
[Randy Shop] [01:14:09] Oh, yeah. I never I yeah. I was loving I was loving doing, you know, being an individual contributor and Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:14:17] My leadership. Our traffic was, like, so much better
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:19] during the bust. Oh, my god.
[Randy Shop] [01:14:20] Oh, my gosh. And for so many years. Also, after 02/2008, it is took several years for it's very nonlinear. Right? It took several years for February to get traffic again.
[Randy Shop] [01:14:29] Yeah. So, so Tumbleweed went public in August 1999. Oh, that's good. And as a and as a sidebar, one of the things I loved about that place was the so it was, founded by a Stanford two people from Stanford, but one, is an American who went to Stanford, and another was a French person who got his, his master's at Stanford. And they were the cofounders of this security company.
[Randy Shop] [01:14:56] And the day so we went public on, I want to call it, 08/06/1999. And so August 7, a Saturday, we were moving. My, my then wife and I or wife? Yes. Then wife and I, were, moving, and we got everybody to help.
[Randy Shop] [01:15:15] So the day after, the French cofounder became a multi 10 millionaires, he and the other and my boss, another French guy, and a bunch of other people from work drove up to San Francisco to San Francisco to help us move. And it's like
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:30] I also just feel like that is such a like, snapshot of an age too where it's like having friends help you move is something you grow out of.
[Randy Shop] [01:15:40] Oh, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:40] You know what I mean?
[Randy Shop] [01:15:40] Yeah. But not what's that awkward?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:44] There's a certain age and there's an age in which it's like age appropriate, and then there's an age at which it is not age appropriate get movers. And I would say that our last move was right outside that age appropriate window where I kind of realized that, like, you know what? I think it's time
[Randy Shop] [01:15:58] to get Uber's to
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:59] the next day.
[Randy Shop] [01:15:59] Pizza and beer only work as a
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:01] Pizza and beer, it's like yeah. Tim and Claudia, God bless you for toting in a very hard day of labour for a pretty meagre pizza and beer at the end of it. Like, Yeah. Yeah. Anyway So okay.
[Randy Shop] [01:16:13] Yeah. So public yeah. So public in August 1999, which is why I remember it. Rocket ship, stock price. If it was over a hundred within, let's call it, six months or so.
[Randy Shop] [01:16:28] And then about a month after it hit a hundred, it hit 3.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:32] Oh, wow.
[Randy Shop] [01:16:34] Hate when that happens.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:35] Oh, man. And then you of course, on the way down, because it's been at a hundred, you're like, it can't go below 50. It's like, why can't it go below 50? It's like, well, because it was at a hundred. Furthermore, it's like, well, now it's at 20.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:45] It's like, well, I can't
[Randy Shop] [01:16:45] go below 10. I let's just say this, that I learned a lot about the tax law about how you can take you can take, what you're already laughing at me.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:56] Loss carry forward.
[Randy Shop] [01:16:57] Yes. Loss carry forward. And so, ultimately, that,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:02] that My loss carry forward from the .com bust, I was living off that for a while. Let's just say that loss carry forward I had for many, many years.
[Randy Shop] [01:17:10] Let's just say I didn't pay any capital gains for the next decade.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:13] That's right. That's right. Oh, man. I wish I were
[Randy Shop] [01:17:17] making that up.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:19] Right. I know why I wish I were making it up. So, there we go. It's all lived experience. But, we also felt like that whole experience though was also a just good reminder of like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:31] No. No. No. Like, why am I here? Like, because it's very easy.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:34] You get When employees are all checking the stock ticker every day, it's like it's
[Randy Shop] [01:17:37] Oh, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:38] You know, and I always felt that like one of the the the things that was, an interesting observation. I felt, Adam, that we did much better work at Sun in the bus than we ever did in the boom. And the, you know, I I I think it's its just when you kinda take away that, when you get everyone there for much more intrinsic reasons, when you take because the extrinsic motivation has gone to three. So it's like
[Randy Shop] [01:18:08] It wasn't a hundred, and now it's
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:10] It wasn't a hundred and my extrinsic motivation is now at three. So it's like, well, I think I need to go look for some intrinsic motivation around here.
[Randy Shop] [01:18:17] Yeah. Look. I mean, it is this is true every what is it? Experience, success comes from experience, experience comes from failure. Right?
[Randy Shop] [01:18:27] Totally. So all these things are all these things are learning experiences. I mean, they really are. And, you know, we could have our blameless post-mortem about it. Like, in retrospect, I learned a lot.
[Randy Shop] [01:18:37] Like, okay, don't assume that everything's gonna always go up. Take profits along the way, you know, and various other things. I'm like, look. It cleared out the fairway.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:49] Company can trade for less than its cash on hand. That's, that was what I was like. Thank you, Wall Street for that high praise. Like, we were treating
[Randy Shop] [01:18:55] us like we were worth less than.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:58] It's then the literal cash. Like, forget real estate. Like, this is, like, actual cash on hand. Like, you don't it's like, oh, this is fun. We're having a good time over here.
[Randy Shop] [01:19:05] Yeah. But you'll appreciate this, Brian, in particular. Like, it clears out the fair weather fans.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:10] It does. It absolutely clears out
[Randy Shop] [01:19:12] the fair weather fans. And Yes. Is that a good like, do I is that a thing where, like, oh, I'm so glad people suffered? Like, no. But this is what happens.
[Randy Shop] [01:19:22] Right? Like, something bad happens in the world. And, okay, it causes us to reassess things. And sometimes we make different decisions after something. Like, again, if everything's all well, it's like the trust fund baby.
[Randy Shop] [01:19:37] Right? If you've always everything's been handed to your whole life, you don't really appreciate it, and you don't really learn from it. You don't really grow. Like, you stay as a toddler, at least in most Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:45] And I also think it's an it's a very important point that, you know, when that when you have this kind of, larger adversity, like, there 's's a lot of positivity that can come out of it even though it can be very hard to see at the time. And because I also feel that, like, you know, we're talking about you know, you talk about your dad in 1973. Nineteen '70 '3 was not a good time in The US. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:20:08] A lot I mean, like, people 1973, what is that? You mean, you think of oil lines. Right? You think of, cars. If it's oil it was the, you know, Middle East oil crisis.
[Randy Shop] [01:20:18] Crisis. Its cars backed up around at gas stations, backed up around the corner, huge, economic shocks all over the world.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:29] You are just outside a deeply unpopular war that that had, I mean, had, in a draft that had, really ripped apart the country. You had a, a president in the office that would later resign in, and, I mean, it's just like there was a lot kind of going on. There were plenty of reasons for pessimism in 1973. Yeah. And I I I, and it's very easy kind of in hindsight to be like, oh, how amazing would it have been to be, you know, in at Xerox PARC in 1973.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:07] And if it was amazing, but it also was like, just don't overly romanticize the larger time that it lived in. And that part of what made that I mean, part of that I think that's the purity of Xerox Park is you've got people talk about intrinsic motivation, especially your dad, in where it's like, no. I am as stubborn as a're right.
[Randy Shop] [01:21:28] Right. I want to do computer graphics whether my boss, likes it or not. Yeah. Absolutely. And, again, sort of back bringing it back to the opener about, you know, is Silicon Valley really all about hard right politics and money grubbing?
[Randy Shop] [01:21:44] Like, the people, the researchers in that lab paid pretty well, but they weren't multimillionaires.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:54] Yeah. Right.
[Randy Shop] [01:21:54] Right? There was no expectation from I mean, they were doing freaking research. Right? Right. You know so you could work for, I mean, if you wanted to do research, you could be in academia, or you could work for a government thing.
[Randy Shop] [01:22:03] You work for Bell Labs, you work for Xerox and maybe IBM. But, you know, it wasn't people did not choose that life. Nobody goes to be a PhD to make money.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:16] Right.
[Randy Shop] [01:22:17] Yeah. Right? Like no one sits there for five years, you know, doing what they do because they think they're going to get rich. Anyway, so I'm just coming back to, again, is everybody perfect and it's all rainbows and unicorns? Like, no, of course not.
[Randy Shop] [01:22:34] But the but again, looking back can teach us a lot about, you know, there really is there really is a spirit to this place. And should there be other places on the planet that are like this? Like, I as a Silicon Valley person, I hope so. I want that to be true. I want there to be the Silicon Slopes and the Silicon Alley and the Silicon Tundra and the Silicon Jungle.
[Randy Shop] [01:22:56] I mean, like, that's a great thing for the world. I mean, that's a great thing for the world. You know, so, you know, I know enough distributed systems to know not to have a single point of failure. But I will say that, personally, I benefited a lot because I love travel. And, you know, one of the things that I wanted to do in my international deal was, hey, go around the world and make things better.
[Randy Shop] [01:23:21] Well, the world came the world came to me. Good. Like Yeah. In in the most wonder I mean, like, do I also want to go places? Sure.
[Randy Shop] [01:23:28] I am due. But, like, what a wonder I mean, the other thing I think people don't fully grok, again, because all the billionaires are all white men, is just how incredibly diverse this place is. Could we be more diverse? Oh, yeah. Could we have better gender diversity?
[Randy Shop] [01:23:46] Oh, my gosh. And also people from every place on the planet come here, and they come here because they this is the place, you know, to do this kind of stuff. And I don't think that's bad. You know, again, I want there to be more places. People shouldn't have to leave Nigeria to do great stuff, if that makes sense.
[Randy Shop] [01:24:08] But, anyway, I just, you know, I think that we should, I mean, certainly those of us who live here should feel really grateful about that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:16] We and so let me ask you about that because I think that I do think that, there is a again, cultural breakthroughs in Silicon Valley. I mean, when, you know, in 1973, the world is very command and control. And Xerox is very command and control. Right? I mean, that's part of you got this kind of park these nuts out on the West Coast, but Xerox as a company is actually very command and control.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:41] It's part of the reason that they do fumble the future is there's such an intense mismatch between the way Xerox is structured and the way PARC is structured. Yeah. A %. And the way PARC was structured is actually a much is much more fitting for the for what are going to be the next fifty years. And, you know, you look at the the the innovative companies and at their peak of innovation, and they all are structured.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:09] I mean, they look pretty similar to park in terms of Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:25:12] It's flat organization. So I mean, people you guys are probably familiar with the Western organizational model. Right? Pathological, bureaucratic, and generative. So, bureaucratic is like rules and standards.
[Randy Shop] [01:25:24] That's exactly Drug at that time, you know, broadly. You know, we do it this way because it's its the way it's always been done. And then every successful group technical work over the last century, I will fight people on this, is a gen comes from a generative culture. That's awesome. So park was absolutely you know, so very little hierarchy, respect for the ideas, not respect for the people.
[Randy Shop] [01:25:54] You're you're, like, not respect for the titles that make it like, respect for the people, but not the title. Makes any sense. Everybody helping each other.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:26:02] Focus on prospects.
[Randy Shop] [01:26:03] Focus, focus on outcomes, you know, autonomy, mastery, purpose. And it's exactly Triad is yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:26:11] If it's exactly, it's, you know, and, you know, and also it was a business. So, like, they were not just trying to research for research's sake. They were trying to, you know, Xerox didn't capitalize on it, but all the individuals did. They all invented, you know, the future, you know, each individual one. So, you know, it spawned out.
[Randy Shop] [01:26:35] There's a wonderful, there's a wonderful poster, which I would love to get access to again. I'm sure it's somewhere on the, on the internet, that shows PARC at the centre and then all the other companies that were derived from it. And it's its outrageous, you know, what they are. Anyway, where I was going with that
[Bryan Can trill] [01:26:54] was And by the way, like, PARC as amazing as PARC was and Cingular, you can see a lot of echoes of PARC in Fairchild a generation earlier. And the in terms of, like, Fairchild's contrast to and Fairchild and then what the way Intel, the way Bob Noyes structured Intel. I mean,
[Randy Shop] [01:27:13] In the early days, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:15] The early days of Intel where I mean, you can just There's this through line through Silicon Valley of when you see a group that did something extraordinary together, there are these they are generative cultures. I mean, they do there's some real commonality there.
[Randy Shop] [01:27:32] Yeah. So I I I I am so convinced by that I did a talk, which you can find on YouTube, called, what is it? Breaking Codes, Designing Jets, and Building Teams, something like that. And so the and so Park didn't invent this, this structure. The three examples that I use are Bletchley Park, where Alan Turing and Toddy Flowers and everybody broke the German Enigma codes and the Lawrence cipher in one World War two.
[Randy Shop] [01:28:02] Again, exactly similar to this, hugely generative culture, actually very diverse. Three quarters of the people at Bletchley Park were women of the 10,000 people at, at peak. Again, autonomy, mastery, purpose, exactly a park structured thing. This is in, obviously, in the mid-forties. Lockheed Skunk Works, where they built for generation after generation the fastest, highest flying aircraft the world has ever seen.
[Randy Shop] [01:28:29] That includes the U two. That includes, stealth technology with the f one seventeen. That includes The good one. The SR 71 Blackbird, which is still the fastest, highest flying aircraft, even though it was built in the sixties.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:43] Built with slide rules, that thing.
[Randy Shop] [01:28:45] Oh my gosh. And, And easy aircraft. And Kelly's, model there, again, starting very soon after the war. I think it was like '46 or maybe even during the oh, no. Absolutely.
[Randy Shop] [01:28:55] It was during the war. What am I what am I talking about? Because they replicated a during the war, they replicated a bunch of German jets. They built the the the lightning. They built everything.
[Randy Shop] [01:29:05] Anyway, where was I going with that? Again, extremely generative culture. And, Kelly has, the his, like, 14 rules, which are almost exactly like you could quote that verbatim, and it'd be exactly like a DevOps streamline team topologies, setup today. Anyway, and then part was
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:28] meant for the past Ben Rich's Skunk Works is a phenomenal read.
[Randy Shop] [01:29:34] Yes. That actually was reading that book, which I got for my son, who's an aviation enthusiast and the third generation of, of shop engineers, by the way, or will be, will be very Under
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:44] the pressure. Are you? He's going he's going a lawyer. He's going to do an internship as a software engineer. Furthermore, he's going to be like, you know what?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:51] Actually, I'm realizing that, like, the law is really my calling.
[Randy Shop] [01:29:56] Yeah. By the way, I did say Kelly Clarkson, then I met Kelly Johnson. But, anyway, yeah. So it was reading, reading Ben Rich's Skunk Works book that I bought for my son, where all the stuff clicked. It was like, oh my god.
[Randy Shop] [01:30:07] It's like describing in the forward what kind of culture that, Kelly had put together and, and Ben Rich had continued. And it was like, oh, this is exactly DevOps. This is exactly generative culture. And then the talk almost wrote it. I mean, I did a bunch of research, but, like, the structure of the talk, like, just wrote itself in five minutes, if that makes sense.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:29] Yeah. Well, in so, I mean, I think this is one of the is a very important, again, through line in Silicon Valley. And you because your career has really been not just about this kind of technical contribution, but much more so, I dare say, than your father, thinking kind of organizationally and thinking about, like, teams and how we structure people and how we motivate them. I mean, that's something that is really not what your dad did, but correct me if I'm wrong. I know he did it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:55] He he he started a company of his own, after, although I cannot find much on it on Aurora. Oh my gosh.
[Randy Shop] [01:31:02] Yeah. Well, you have to come to my house to find any remnants of
[Bryan Can trill] [01:31:05] Okay. So we might do that. I actually did wonder about that as well. I'm like, because there is, like, Aurora Systems is what he started after Xerox PARC, and there is just not a lot on the Internet about this company.
[Randy Shop] [01:31:16] Yeah. So it's called Aurora Imaging Systems. Okay. And they built hardware they built graphics hardware to do like Super Paint plus and started that in, I want to say, '79. That sounds about right.
[Randy Shop] [01:31:33] And did that for ten years. And then later and then later, he went back to research. So, he actually went back to he went to Paul Allen's, interval research, which was the attempt to recreate PARC. And then he went to a research lab funded by Rico in the Bay Area. Anyway, but, but Aurora for a sec.
[Randy Shop] [01:31:51] So, yeah. So, when he was ignominiously fired finally, you know, at park for, you know, being too crazy and too colourful, you know, in And
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:03] and also there's a moment outlined in the dealers of lighting book where they are having a meeting about how to carve up the hardware that he's using that they do not invite him to.
[Randy Shop] [01:32:13] Oh, yeah. Right. He shows up, and they're like, hey, Dick, they're having a meeting about you. And so he bursts in and yeah. They're talking about how to take all this yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:32:21] It's like, why do you
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:22] have my right leg on a slide, and you're feeding it to the pigs? It's like, what's going on? It's like, wait a minute.
[Randy Shop] [01:32:28] Yeah. He was able to rescue all the hardware. Oh, and oh, and I didn't close this loop. Super Paint is in the Computer History Museum collection. That's nice.
[Randy Shop] [01:32:37] And it right and it rotates. So, so there was a time when I was visiting actually with eBay colleagues. We're just like, you know, sometimes you do escape rooms as things. This was, hey, we'd go to the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, and we're just walking along.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:50] The History Museum should have an escape room. I just want to say that now.
[Randy Shop] [01:32:53] Oh, that would be awesome. I would totally do that. Anyway, so we go there, and we're walking along, and I'm like, hey, here's my dad's computer system. And they're like, what? I'm like, read that.
[Randy Shop] [01:33:03] Oh, it says, you know, Richard G. Shape, Super paint, blah, blah, blah. Anyway, so it's in the collection. And I'm not sure where I was going with that, but it's
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:12] But then, or then he does Aurora. So he Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:33:15] Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. So he, founds, a hardware company to build, think SGI, but, like, whatever, fifty ten, fifteen years or whatever is the whatever is the time frame. Ten.
[Randy Shop] [01:33:27] Let's call it ten years or
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:29] yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:33:30] And so they weren't that successful. You know, they sold to a bunch of, a bunch of, television and video things that, you know, one could make up lots of things. I mean, arguably, it was too early. But also arguably This is tracked? Pardon?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:46] Was it VC backed?
[Randy Shop] [01:33:48] How did he raise money for it? Yes. Yes. He that's there was a VC called Seven Rosen. That was the main, investor.
[Randy Shop] [01:33:58] Actually, he's my stepmother is the niece of one of his investors.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:07] Okay. Stepmother is the niece of one of us. I'm trying to think
[Randy Shop] [01:34:09] of So one of you so he bare he remarried. No. There's nothing. He remarried. And so, again, my parents were divorced in '70 they were separated in, like, '73, '70 '6, somewhere there.
[Randy Shop] [01:34:22] And then he remarried in 1990, and he married the niece of one of his investors, who he met that way. Okay. Yeah. And our
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:30] So Seven Rosen is, I'm I am pretty sure this is correct. Ben Rosen, yeah, Ben Rosen, who's the cofounder of Seven Rosen, is an early investor in Compaq, and he is on the Silicon in the Silicon Cowboys documentary. Features quite prominently. Cool. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:48] So there's
[Randy Shop] [01:34:49] there 's's another guy whose name I'm blanking on, but will come to me later. Dozen, r o I z e n is his last name. He was also an investor and had his offices at the Oak Grove Apartments just north of Stanford University where a bunch of my friends lived after college. But I remember going as a kid, and they're doing some deal and, you know, they gave me a Coke, and I sat in a room, well, for a couple of hours while they were negotiating.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35:24] And you're like, you know, this is like I'm kinda used to Xerox Park. It's kinda my bar for Beanbag Forts and this I don't know. This this this PC office is this doesn't feel as quite as historically relevant.
[Randy Shop] [01:35:35] Yeah. I, you know, I wanted to draw some spaceships or make some forts. And, and instead, I had to actually, they, I remember it was quite embarrassing because I must've been, so I must've been a little bit young. They had a videotape of, four of the early Saturday Night Live people. Jane Curtin and a few other Saturday Night Live people did, like, a comedy album that they called or where there was a song that was, like, let's talk dirty to the animals.
[Randy Shop] [01:36:02] And I remember feeling real like, I was super embarrassed. Like, oh, they were using all these swear words and stuff.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:08] You know, I don't know if that featured prominently on the SNL at fifty special last night. If the let's talk dirty to the animals. I don't remember that one being, Yeah. So the so does Aurora for a deck and that's a long time, though, to Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:36:24] I mean, look, he
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:24] he gave it he gave it
[Randy Shop] [01:36:25] a good run, and there were other companies that were doing similar things around that. I mean, so there's a real need. Right? For Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:33] Right. Right. Right.
[Randy Shop] [01:36:33] Computer graphics. He wasn't doing animation systems like Pixar, you know, did for their first decade. But graphics systems, like, think for, think for, like, television weather graphics, that type of stuff.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:46] I mean, so this is kind of the space that Avid is in now today. Do you know Avid?
[Randy Shop] [01:36:51] I haven't paid attention. The the the
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:53] Yeah. This is like this is like an early Avid. What was, like, kinda his take on that whole experience? And did you have any because are you actually I guess, you're still too young to be quite be working then. And how do the kind of the years line up?
[Randy Shop] [01:37:07] Yeah. So I do remember a conversation at Intel my senior year of college, where they were like, hey. Do you want to come work for us? And I knew that I didn't because it not because I wasn't having a good time, but because Intel's a hardware company and I wanted to do software.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:23] Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:37:23] So they were I remember somebody saying, hey, should, could you go work for your dad's company? And it was like, I never that never occurred to me. And, like, probably not. He's a little fancy. You know, so, yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:37:38] But that means that in 1990, that that was a possibility. So he was or still must have been, going then. But it wouldn't have been going for that much longer. Yeah. Because, again, he joined he was at interval research, which is Paul Allen's attempt to recreate park at Kitty Corner from Park.
[Randy Shop] [01:37:56] He was there for the full five years. So I think that was, '91 to '95, something like
[Bryan Can trill] [01:38:04] that. And then so but in your career, again, you were really thinking about this kind of team formation and how you would, I mean, the so kinda I mean, it really does feel like you're kind of, building on your father's experience in a way that taking it in a different direction. Is that Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:38:20] That's fair. Look, you know, I think all of us, you know, are obviously influenced by our parents, but, you know, there are only some of us that are like clones, you know? And so, yeah, I mean, he wasn't I mean, he would say if he were around to say it, he would say he was never very interested at all in management or in team dynamics that were anything other than getting stuff done, if that makes any sense. Like, he's mostly alone. I mean, he was a lone wolf, you know, and not He's a lone wolf.
[Randy Shop] [01:38:52] He he he made he made great friends with people, so I don't want to give that wrong impression. But, like, he was not the team built. He was like a crotchety, you know, crusty as Ally said, guy that he is pretty damn smart and, like, he knew he could just do it all himself and was very happy doing it.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:39:06] Does that
[Bryan Can trill] [01:39:06] make sense? I mean, he mean, he's the lone inventor and I don't mean that pejoratively. I mean, he's good. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:39:11] Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. That's a very well good very good way to say it. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:39:14] And he was always very, very much about ideas, if that makes any sense. So, he was not the hardware tinkerer as much as he was the great idea philosopher. So, much later in life, he was always interested in, like, physics and quantum mechanics, and he had some fascinating actually, on YouTube, you can look for them. He had a bunch of interesting lectures, where he was trying to come up with, and doing a lot of good stuff around scientific explanations for various, like, psi phenomena, you know? So he believed that he believed in parapsychological phenomena.
[Randy Shop] [01:39:55] He believed that many of those things happened, like, not a bunch of them were hoaxes and whatever, but he said not all of them. And he believed there's no magic. There's no sneaky whatever. It's just we just don't understand the physics. And I don't think I can fully do it in thirty seconds.
[Randy Shop] [01:40:14] But he had an explanation of entanglement in quantum mechanics where things could flow both forward and backward. Causality flows both forward and backward, and it's pretty tight. And he never fully explored it in the last years of his life, unfortunately, but he was always intending to write a book about that. Yeah. Spooky act just briefly.
[Randy Shop] [01:40:42] Spooky act in a distance, he's like, that's bullshit. But what it is when there's the collapse of the wave function, it travels back in time in the sense that that collapse forces a particular thing that was always true in the entangled articles. I don't think I'm I'm probably not doing it justice, but, anyway, neither here nor there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:08] So but you think by by by contrast, your career has been very team oriented and have been kind of very is that I mean Yeah. It must give you great I mean, obviously, you are a technologist as well, but just having that from your father must give you great empathy for that kind of contributor because we still have, like, plenty of people that are like that that that make extraordinary contributions that are really important to kind of to inspire and, I mean, is that as the experience with your dad, I mean, helped you as an engineering leader?
[Randy Shop] [01:41:44] I mean, probably in ways that I'm not aware of, if that makes sense. He was always very good at understanding things very deeply and then therefore explaining things very clearly. And I think that is a trait that I have, and I think is, you know, not a little bit due to him.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:05] Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:42:08] I don't know. He personally, he kept I'm not sure how to say this. He kept his work life private. So it's not like he came home Yeah. Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:42:17] In contrast to other people in my family over the years when, you know, they come home, and they talk about work, and they tell work stories and so on. You know what I mean? And he was, like, for him, it was maybe it's the lone I mean, now that we're talking about the lone wolf, lone inventor, like, yeah, it was all in his all in his head, if that makes any sense.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:35] Yeah. And I can, I mean, I for whatever it's worth, I'm like that too? I do not talk about work at home. Yeah. I'm always like, listen to the podcast if you're curious.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:42] Yeah.
[Randy Shop] [01:42:42] Do you like, dad, how was work?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:45] Like, it was just like Go yeah. Go listen to the podcast.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:42:48] No one's ever asked me that. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:50] Yeah. Exactly. Not yeah. Right. And I think it's a trick question.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:53] Usually is.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:42:55] What do you want? Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:57] Exactly. Whatever you want. It's fine. Let's just get what what what did you do? What what what, what did you break?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:01] Let's just well, you get past it.
[Randy Shop] [01:43:04] Exactly. Dad, how was your day at work? What happened? Yeah. I'm not falling for that shit.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:09] Tell me what you broke. The so a question about, like, what are some of your, like, must read books? Certainly, I think you've already mentioned you we've already mentioned Dealers of Lightning. I think Dealers of Lightning is a must-read for everybody. I really do think that that's an it's a terrific book.
[Randy Shop] [01:43:26] Or the top I mean, I'll give a broader answer because it's a more general question, but, like, the other one that isn't as well known as Dealers of Lightning is called Valley of Genius. Yeah. That's excellent. That's, Adam Fisher, and it is it's an it's an it's a format that I've never seen done before since, but it's wonderful. It's he interviewed all these people, including my dad and, like, Zuckerberg and Jobs and, you know, all these people, Gates.
[Randy Shop] [01:43:53] And the book is as if they were having conversations with themselves using quotes that he got from direct conversations with them. So there is no text in there from him beyond whatever the forward. It is only people's
[Bryan Can trill] [01:44:07] says people's says
[Randy Shop] [01:44:08] says dot dot dot. Ally Ray Smith says so so so. Bill Gates says such and such and such. And the individual chapters are all themed, like, you know, one about whatever the Internet and one about graphics and so on and various other things. And it's just this a very it really flows very nicely.
[Randy Shop] [01:44:26] And it's as if these people are all in some, you know, swan talking to each other. Right? Like, intellectual salon, as if they were right as if they were all
[Bryan Can trill] [01:44:36] for pronouncing that in the original French, by the way.
[Randy Shop] [01:44:38] Oh, you're, you're
[Bryan Can trill] [01:44:39] you're We're trying to get that right around here.
[Randy Shop] [01:44:41] Yeah. But right. So yeah. That's so that's a good one. Let's see.
[Randy Shop] [01:44:47] Learning wise, must read books. Well, it depends on what you're going for. I think you cannot go wrong with Accelerate. So that's Nicole Forsaken, Jet Humble jeans Kim on basically how to do modern software correctly. And, for fun, I like Gene Kim's, Phoenix Project and Unicorn Project.
[Randy Shop] [01:45:10] Those are Oh. Novels about IT, which I would even though I love Gene, and he's a great friend, I would have thought there's no way you can make our job interesting, but, like, they're page turners. Like, I do want to find out how Bill just doesn't lose his job and blah blah blah and, you know, whatever parts unlimited or whatever it is.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:45:30] I guess you are a huge Phoenix project fan.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:45:32] Yeah. Big Phoenix project fan. Yeah. Gene let me see the, the Unicorn project early. So I like to think I had a very small twist of one of the characters.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:45:42] But, oh, oh, I've not heard this before. I didn't realize that this is
[Adam Levinthal] [01:45:46] no big deal. Yeah. No. I love cheating and and and really enjoyed, Phoenix Project and, Unicorn.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:45:52] Yeah. That is great. This is kinda like the, the blogging software that that took your PR once. And as a result, you feel like the
[Randy Shop] [01:46:01] Oh, I co-wrote this blogging software. Oh, you mean you submitted a PR? Yeah. Good. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:04] You know? I'm just thinking, I'm just thinking they got very good taste. That's all I have to say. They got they they they have ex exquisite taste in PRs.
[Randy Shop] [01:46:12] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:13] I will very I
[Randy Shop] [01:46:13] will very briefly so I'll make sure very briefly. So the question from Blacksmith for Life is must read books for individual contributors. And so super quickly, Michael Feathers working effectively with legacy code. Have to have to read that one. If you have not read obviously, Refactoring by, by Martin Fowler, you have to read that.
[Randy Shop] [01:46:36] I am I really liked, Chris Richardson's Microservices Patterns, actually. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Are actually quite good. Happy to if people want to connect with me
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:48] I was going to say microservices or we I thought microservices were what the persona non grata on the and that'll be, or maybe they're back again.
[Randy Shop] [01:46:59] Well, I mean, at eBay and Google, they were never gone.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:47:03] There you go.
[Randy Shop] [01:47:05] But yeah. Look. I mean, we could have a whole podcast, and I have done podcasts on when and when not to use microservices. Do we live in an industry that is fad driven and do lots of times people copy things they shouldn't? Oh, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:47:24] Absolutely not. I don't know.
[Randy Shop] [01:47:26] Does that mean does that mean that those things are wrong and broken for everybody? No. I love that so that I have been trying to come up with analogies and metaphors for these for a while, and I put this one on LinkedIn a little while ago. Something like, a fleet of buses. No one could possibly ever need a fleet of buses.
[Randy Shop] [01:47:45] All you need is one stupid little car. And if your mental model is it's a single family, well, yeah, you just need a car. But if your mental model is you're a municipality, then you need a fleet of buses. And it's not right? One is appropriate for the one and the other are appropriate for the other.
[Randy Shop] [01:48:03] And, you know, that's not weird.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:48:07] So, one final thing I wanted to ask you because we're talking about Silicon Valley and kind of, you know, Silicon Valley as kinda as, you know, literal spot, the Santa Clara Valley and now really the broader Bay Area and, you know, much bigger than that. I mean, it's hard the but I know, because we this spot was I did have this kind of important cultural breakthroughs, and I feel that actually one of those big important cultural breakthroughs is the ability to have a distributed workforce and have people I mean, I'm kind of, like, I mean, you well, you know our opinions on some of this return to the office business, which I think, you know, to your kinda earlier point about, you know, the I personally think, you know, I don't know if you want to call it. So I know there is a Silicon Tundra, but I think that the how much do you think the ability like, the remote working to me, and I think we likened to this on when we did the podcast episode on it, but the the the forcing people into the office feels to me like a forced dress code, And it feels to me like the forced dress code that people were bucking when you were at Kyle War shock and were like, wow, this is great because it's like a dress down law firm.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:16] Yeah. It is it feels to me like that what's your take on how a distributed work is going to affect the future of Silicon Valley?
[Randy Shop] [01:49:25] Oh, wow. I have so many thoughts, and I hope I can get them all. Okay. Return to office is the Roman Empire on its down, on its, downward trajectory. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:40] This is great. Finally, we got someone who's, like, drawing grander historical metaphors than I am at it. This is I forget this. I love it. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:47] Decline and fall of the Roman Empire.
[Randy Shop] [01:49:50] Poly sci major, dude.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:51] Here we go.
[Randy Shop] [01:49:54] So yeah. So it is the know, and it scares me, frankly, you know, on behalf of those folks. It's like Amazon. It's like shooting yourself in the foot, and I don't, you know, I don't know how you recover. So, Walmart too, I will say without, you know, divulging any specific names that people are rushing for the exits and people are very happy to consider working for, the entirely remote Thrive market where I currently head engineering that work at companies that are doing RTOs right now.
[Randy Shop] [01:50:26] So that it is gonna force whether that's the intention or not, and I'm equally, you know, conspiracy minded or pragmatic, you know, depending on my mood, as you are, Brian, in that episode. But, but, yeah, no, I think it's I think it's its gonna it's its gonna force a brain drain no matter what. So how do what do I so, yes, we now live in a world where anybody can work anywhere and do things. And this concept that and also so many things to think. So the love and have for ten years working remotely.
[Randy Shop] [01:51:01] And also, if we is I don't get together in person with my team at least once a quarter, you know, being respectful of people's family time and so on. But I would prefer a little bit more often, then we lose trust, and we lose the, you know, the sort of really collaborative opportunities because I agree that, you know, lots of people can have ideas whether over video or not. But just there's nothing quite like being in person.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:30] There's something special about being in person.
[Randy Shop] [01:51:32] Yeah. And in fact Absolutely. And in fact, on that score, I will, I think I do not divulge any secrets when I say the reason that we are having this podcast today, Brian, is because you and I were in person you're laughing. You and I were in person on Wednesday
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:46] That's a good point.
[Randy Shop] [01:51:47] At the San Francisco CTO club, and we started having a chat about other random things, how much I enjoyed the podcast, and hence, we're here. So there is, you know, is it true that only the only place to do creative ideas between people is in person? Like, no, that's crazy. It's crazy thought crazy talk. And also, the optimal situation, I'm not going to call it hybrid because that has another meaning, but the optimal, like, the the the peak of it or, you know, the efficient frontier or whatever is, mostly is remote most of the time and then get together, every so often.
[Randy Shop] [01:52:27] And that's how we just do it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:52:29] So and I personally wonder if it's going to be I mean, ironically, Silicon Valley companies leading the charge on that kind of flexible approach because I I I and maybe not. Maybe it'll be that you'll see that happen elsewhere. But you but that requires a kind of cultural creativity and flexibility that the mean, because, you know, interestingly to me, the the the company that's not RTO is NVIDIA. So it's like, there I think that there is, I think it's the people would assume that, wait, boy, if people can work from anywhere, Silicon Valley will become nothing. But Silicon Valley already was metaphorical, really.
[Randy Shop] [01:53:07] And Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:53:08] The And I and I and
[Randy Shop] [01:53:10] I and I hope it does. I mean, honestly, like I say, like, I love the fact that the world has come to me. And also, I don't I don't want this spa for the entire world. Like, I'd love for a little bit less traffic on the 280. Right?
[Randy Shop] [01:53:26] So, you know, I would love for it to be and, you know, the other thing the other point I wanted to make, about, return to office is people have said out loud that, oh, good software cannot be built except by being in person. And I'm like, do you use any open source at
[Bryan Can trill] [01:53:44] all? I sure don't. Next question.
[Randy Shop] [01:53:48] Right. Have you ever heard of I don't know? The Linux operating I mean
[Bryan Can trill] [01:53:52] Right. No. Its it is nuts to me. It is nuts to me. How and I think that but I, you know, I think as you kind of like look forward, I, you know, and this is why it is so valuable to kinda look at your whole through line.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:54:06] And to know that especially young people who are, you know, are excited about the possible of possibilities for the future, but also wondering, like, having anxieties about that. Those anxieties are not new. We grew up in the Cold War, the threat of nuclear war. Your dad was doing this in 1973 when there were gas lines. It's like, you you you have to find the joy, find the stubbornness, and at somewhat at some point, you have to push past the anxiety.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:54:38] And, you know, I think you kinda get to that, that it works mostly, or somewhat. Was it so it is is it somewhat, or It works
[Randy Shop] [01:54:47] sort of.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:54:48] Sort of. There you go. It works sort of, which is just like that to me, is like it works sort of it should be the motto of Silicon Valley. Not move fast and break things. It's it works sort of, which is, kind of where Silicon Valley kind of permanently finds itself.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:55:05] But, I think we have to find ways to kinda stoke that that great creativity and be inspired from it. But, Randy, thank you. I really appreciate you. This has been a great, somewhat random walk, but, it's so, I think, inspiring to hear your story and how, like, we can be and thank you for being so, by the way, so generous with your dad that we all get to kind of, we all get to be inspired by it. And that we, you know, again, it's such an extraordinary story.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:55:40] And
[Randy Shop] [01:55:41] Park
[Bryan Can trill] [01:55:41] is an extraordinary story, but then your father's story within it is so amazing and has had such profound and lasting influence. I think it can really, serve to inspire us all. It's really, really great stuff.
[Randy Shop] [01:55:53] Yeah. Thanks for saying that, Brian. I mean, obviously, he's always been inspiring to me. And I and I think, well, given his, his lifelong interest in, sci and occult phenomena, like, he would want to believe that he's there partly, you know, experiencing the conversation. So,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:56:17] That's awesome.
[Randy Shop] [01:56:18] So, yeah, I think in any event, he would, completely rationally, he would have liked to have known that this conversation happened, if that makes any sense, and would have been would have been happy about it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:56:29] Alright. Well, Dick Scrub, wherever you are, thank you for thanking you for the inspiration to it to and know that it's been, the torch passed to it to, another generation and a generation behind that one.
[Randy Shop] [01:56:42] Indeed. Third generation now.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:56:44] There we go. As we, look forward to, hopefully, again, many narratives for Silicon Valley, but, the one that is currently destroying the republic is not the only one. That's all I'd like to say.
[Randy Shop] [01:56:58] Yes. I'm I'm the one that Yeah. Hear hear. Awesome. Good.
[Randy Shop] [01:57:02] Thanks, guys.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:57:03] Alright. Well, thank you very much, Randy. Adam, thank you for thanking you for your family too for accommodating and this was a great one. We had Randy, it was so great to hear, hear your perspective and stories. Just amazing stuff.
[Randy Shop] [01:57:15] Lots of fun to share.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:57:17] Alright. Thanks, everybody. See you next time.