[Adam Levinthal] [00:00] Hello, Bryan.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:01] Hey. How are you?
[Adam Levinthal] [00:02] Good. How are
[Bryan Can trill] [00:03] you doing? I'm doing well. I'm doing well. Every time I log into Discord no. You know, terminologically, every time I log into Discord, I am getting older, obviously.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:15] It's the oldest you've ever been using Discord.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:18] Every time I've used Discord, I have older children. So that is just a statement of fact. Yeah. That said, it feels like the average age of Discord or at least the people in product of Discord is getting younger faster than I'm getting older.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:32] It's their still the same age. Yes. They do.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:35] But, like, some of these updates are like, am I's just being this me? I mean, it just feels like I don't know.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:42] I Feel like if you click enough layers deep, I feel like I always get to a screen which is like, basically, like, I don't like what I just saw. Please don't show me this again. And then it shows me it again, but it is seems to have enough buttons for the oldsters.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:58] Yeah. I just kinda feel like, you know, I always I always tell, parents with the scout troop that you should never linger by the tent of a bunch of 15-year-olds. One, it's invading the privacy. But two, you may hear some things that you can't unheard. And I just frequently feel with Discord that I am accidentally lingering by a tent that I don't I'm like, why what is I just I don't know.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21] I I I get a good it's Yeah. Creeps me out it. That's what I'm saying. Go like Discord. Like, Discord, we're not all teenagers.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29] Like, we there are some adults using this thing. Right? Maybe that's it. Are we the only ones? Is that possible?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35] I mean, we'm
[Adam Levinthal] [01:37] not sure if this is, the perfect intended demographic in use, but
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43] but
[Adam Levinthal] [01:43] they are getting, like, you know, dozens of dollars out of us per year. So Dozens. Yeah. You know, maybe
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51] Okay. I didn't or okay. Maybe maybe maybe only one dozen. Yeah. A dozen dollars, that ought to go somewhere.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:57] Let's say
[Adam Levinthal] [01:58] That's right. It's a market.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:01] This one's overdue. This today's topic is overdue.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:05] I It goes without saying I'm sorry. I'm so excited. I'm so excited because I didn't realize that the events we're about to talk about occurred, like, two years ago almost to the day.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:15] Two years ago almost to the day.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:16] Yeah. And I yeah. Then two years ago plus one day, I started hassling you about having an episode about it.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:24] I don't know that it was two years ago minus a day. Okay. Okay. Because so part, and we're going to get to this wild tale, but we were legitimately concerned that we had stumbled across a very serious microprocessor vulnerability.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:44] Yeah. I guess it's fair. I mean, I think I asked about it.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:47] Follow an AMD's p cert process to make sure that we were engaged in responsible disclosure. Yeah. But then they responsibly told us to go pound sand. Yeah. That's a feature.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:00] Right? Yeah. Exactly. So, I guess we could have done the podcast at that point. But then then then we needed the then we needed a cooling-off period after that.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:06] So, you know, you you you know what I'm saying? You add all these things up, it adds up to about two years.
[Adam Levinthal] [03:10] So here we are.
[Adam Levinthal] [03:11] That's right.
[Adam Levinthal] [03:12] That's right. Perfect.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:13] No. It is that obviously you did the same search that I had kind of mentioned to you this morning that if you search back for if you look for TOP speculation in actually all Oxide chat, certainly in at least in in our personal chat history, it is basically you over and over again suggesting that we do this. And we, not even really dignifying it with a response, although occasionally laughing at it.
[Adam Levinthal] [03:34] There well, I do like, at one point, we were sort of like, what should we do? And I said, TLB speculation or IMDB? And you're
[Bryan Can trill] [03:41] like, oh, IMDB. I'm like IMDB. Other one. Why? The other one.
[Adam Levinthal] [03:44] Why did I give them two choices? And then I switched to just trying to convince you it was your idea, but like a classic manoeuvre.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:51] Oh oh oh, that is classic manoeuvre. Is that what worked? Is that what finally got us here? Because, you know, I did I was so suddenly struck by this. We should do the episode on this.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:59] And I know where that thought came from. Like, I am I tried to piece together where that thought came from, and
[Adam Levinthal] [04:04] I didn't know. Accepted you. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:06] Exactly. It occurred to me completely independently of anything else. Yeah. Yeah. I well, I mean, of course, you're right.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:13] And There we go. I am okay. So I think that and then there was, like, the the this piece of reason and that for sure. But I think then it was like, okay. I there's just a lot of context I've got to go remind myself of and ramp up on.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:27] Yeah. But as I was ramping up on the context, I'm like, you know what? This really does merit a podcast. Like, I mean, how is it that you know, actually, exactly. You know, people think that, like, we are chronic overshares, which we are, but there are actually some things that we have not had a podcast episode on.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:45] And the although there'll be there'll be one fewer such things after Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [04:49] That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:51] And I'm I'm really glad that John and Ran are here, because I think part of what makes this, so wild is that the manifestations are the the the kind of the symptoms of this are so far removed from the underlying root cause, and it just we just never would have imagined. It was that I mean, it and there were a couple of times along the way where I think that we had pretty strong conventional wisdom where the bug was emanating, and, we were all wrong. So, John, do would you mind kicking us off? Because I think you're the first person to run across, the ramifications of this. Is that right?
[John Gallagher] [05:36] Yeah. Yeah. That's right. I was going to ask you if context is okay, but it sounds like context is exactly what you want.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:42] Yeah. Exactly. It's its strongly desired. Weird.
[John Gallagher] [05:44] Okay. Yeah. So I have I took notes because there's a lot there's a lot of stuff even before we get into the actual problem. Okay. So have we talked about the UPDATE sled recovery process on the podcast?
[Bryan Can trill] [05:54] I was going to say I don't think we real if we have its bear it merits review. I don't think we have. I so I would actually like you to go into, like, kinda what this thing is doing, actually. What the actual problem that we're solving here.
[John Gallagher] [06:06] Okay. Alright. So we have a rack, and let's say that we have a sled in it that we need to make sure has the latest version of all software. It is possible that that sled can't boot, like say one of its M. Two drives, the one hosting the OS has died.
[John Gallagher] [06:22] It's been replaced with a new one from the factory. Or even suppose the sled, like the software on the sled itself is ancient, and it has no hope of possibly talking to anything else in the rack. So we want to assume the sled itself is completely unable to help us, and we need to bring it up to speed. So we have a sled recovery process. I'll probably call it an update a bunch because that's what we call it internally for reasons that are probably not relevant here.
[John Gallagher] [06:48] But the way that this works is we upload a TURF repository, which is a zip file containing sort of like all the software that we might want in a given release. And it we upload that to yeah. Go ahead.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:04] Yeah. Just to be clear, just because, you know, the kids do say like the highest praise that the young for anything is tough, t o u g h. So this is tough, t u f. This is I mean, it is TOUGH in the in the kind of the gen z sense, but it's also TOUGH, t u f, the update framework. So sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:20] Yes. Give me to interject.
[John Gallagher] [07:21] No. That's good. It's its hard to pronounce acronyms, I guess. The so we upload a TOUGH repo, t u f, which is a zip file with some It contains some hashes and metadata and signing and all this sort of thing. We upload that to one of the sleds that is functional.
[John Gallagher] [07:37] So the sled that we're driving the process from, this goes through a service called Wicket. It has a very cool terminal interface. I know we've talked about that on the podcast before.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:48] Oh, yeah.
[John Gallagher] [07:49] Wicket. Wicket. Wicket is great. So Wicket unpacks the zip file and then keeps the contents of it in memory for the duration of this sled recovery process, which is relevant to more of the context later. So the way this works is we've the sled in the rack that we assume can't boot.
[John Gallagher] [08:07] We do need to be able to talk to its service processor over the management network. That is a pretty safe assumption to make. We can't talk to the service processor or the slit is just completely dead. So we can set a bit in when talking to the service processor, we can set a bit saying when the OS boots, tell it instead of looking on its local m dot two drives for the OS image to ask you for it instead. And you, by extension, you service processor are supposed to fetch it from me over the management network.
[John Gallagher] [08:36] And I will serve it to you like a block at a time over UDP, over the management network. And you then turn around and stream it to the host CPU over a UART running it like three megabits. So this process is slow. Right? We don't want to like we did some sort of napkin math at the very beginning for the size of our like real OS images.
[John Gallagher] [08:59] We're going to be sitting there for hours waiting for this thing to be streamed over the UART. So instead, we send over a very stripped down recovery image or trampoline image. If we start posting links to code, you may see both of those names. That is sort of like the minimal thing required to bring up the networking, like networking stack and then run a program called Installinator. And Installinator's job is to ask the service processor sorry, Brian, did you?
[Bryan Can trill] [09:29] I I I was going to say that one thing I love about this is you're talking about this as the recovery path, and I love the fact that we deliberately use the recovery path all the time. Because, know, one of the think one of the many object lessons of this is not of this bug per se, but of this design is to is a recovery path that is unused will also be untested. So it's a great thing is that we know we can recover when we have a sled that is a has never had anything on it because we are required to do this recovery path all the time.
[John Gallagher] [09:58] That's right. I neglected to mention this, but this is the way that we have we did and are still doing most of the time updates to Sleds, just like normal updates. We want to update the software, we'll treat you like you're dead and go through the recovery process. At the time that this bug happened, that was I mean, we had started doing that, but it was pretty early in the life cycle of, like, actually using this process regularly. Yeah.
[John Gallagher] [10:22] Alright. So we've so we've we've put this lead into recovery mode. We're streaming in the stripped down OS image that contains the networking stack plus Installinator. Once that thing boots up, it takes something like on the order of fifteen minutes to stream in this very stripped down OS image. Installinator starts up, it then asks the SP also over that same UART that itself was streamed over to ask excuse me, it asks the SP what are the hashes of the real OS image, like the full size one and a hash of like a tarball of all the control plane software, right?
[John Gallagher] [10:56] All the services that run that are not part of the operating system. Then it uses some other stuff from our networking folks, Magazine, etcetera, to find peers on the Bootstrap network and ask them, hey, which of you have, like, an OS with hash blah blah blah and a control plane software tarball with hash blah blah blah? In practice, the only one that does is Wicket, the place where we uploaded the TURF repository because it's driving this whole process all along. So Installinator finds Wicket on the Bootstrap network, says please give me OS with hash blah blah blah, and Wicket sends it over. This is where we're like the real network, so this takes seconds, right, regardless of the, you know, the fact that the real OS image is considerably bigger.
[John Gallagher] [11:37] It does the same thing for the control plane tarball. It then writes the OS image to the boot partition of both the m dot two drives. It writes the control plane software to the right place on both the m dot two drives. And then it'll tell Wicket, you know, I'm done. I've written everything.
[John Gallagher] [11:51] I'm recovered. And Wicket then powers the sled off, reboots it, you know, unsets the recovery bit and tells it to just boot normally. And at that point, we're on our merry way, and we've got a recovered sled through this whole update sled recovery path. If Installinator fails at any point along the way, it will tell Wicket that it has failed and Wicket basically stops at that point. And this is sort of important.
[John Gallagher] [12:17] There are a bunch of ways that it can exactly. There are a bunch of way Like there are a bunch of ephemeral errors that, you know, don't cause a permanent failure. Like if we try a peer on the bootstrap, and it doesn't have the data, we just try the next peer, etcetera. Right? But there are a lot of ways that it can fail that Installinator just by design is like, I don't know what I'm supposed to do here.
[John Gallagher] [12:34] I'm just going to give up, report the best error message I can. And a support operator who's already involved, they had to they have to be on the tech port anyway to have uploaded this tough repo. They will have to look at this error and then log into the sled and see what's gone wrong. Okay. So that's background part one.
[John Gallagher] [12:51] Is that the sled recovery process in five minutes? Is that
[Bryan Can trill] [12:53] Yeah, that's great. Yeah. Excellent. Okay.
[John Gallagher] [12:56] All right. So background part two is that we started to use this process regularly to update all the sleds in the rack that we have in the office in Emeryville. And we had a think Sean ran into this. I'll post a link. So Sean was on the we call it dog food duty that week when he was updating all the software in the rack.
[John Gallagher] [13:20] And what happened was Installinator had reported success and then Wicket rebooted the sled and the sled did not boot. And this is sort of weird because Wicket claimed the sled recovery process is complete. Installation told me it was successful, but then the sled never came back up. And when Sean got on the console, the error message there indicated that the OS image was corrupt. So the OS image has a hash in it.
[John Gallagher] [13:46] It's split into phase one and phase two. Details aren't super important, but the OS image sort of does a check at the very beginning. It says, did I find like the exact SHA two fifty-six match of the image I expect to be here? And if not, I refuse to boot because I don't know what I'm supposed to do in that case. So I saw this and assumed naturally, I think, that I had screwed something up in terms of writing to the disc, right?
[John Gallagher] [14:08] So like the very first time we developed this feature, I haven't even opened the pull request yet. And I run it for from a test the very first time. And I like, Installinator finishes, Wicket powers it off, and it comes back on and like, there's nothing there. Like the OS image didn't finish writing. There are no control plane zones at all.
[John Gallagher] [14:27] I'm like, oh yeah, I'm an idiot. I like, I did all the rights, and then I immediately powered the sled off without like f syncing the rights. Right? So like all this was like still in development. So I
[Bryan Can trill] [14:37] Which you should not have to do, by the way. I mean, I think it speaks highly to you that you'd highly of you that you think that your first thought is the problem is in my code. Adam, I don't know about your first thought. My first thought is like, oh god. The problem is in either we have either data corruption.
[Bryan Can trill] [14:55] Somehow we've got data corruption in ZFS, which is bad. ZFS is not the business of data corruption. And the only time I have seen data corruption in ZFS has been when it has been handed corrupt data, or we've got something much more pathological that's happening in the hardware or system software. So I John, my mind is going to, like, much, much darker places. But in the same vein of, like, this somehow there was corruption that happened between writing this data to disk and writing the state of the stable storage at disk, but writing the state of the stable storage and then arriving on stable storage.
[John Gallagher] [15:31] That's right. So I went back and double-checked. And when I was developing the feature, I'm like, I'm I'm not a CFS expert. Let me go ask someone who is. So I'd asked Robert, like, what should I do if I'm writing these images?
[John Gallagher] [15:42] And then I'm gonna immediately, like the very next thing that happens is literally like the slug gets powered off. And Robert gave me a list of things to do, like f syncing the drive, like flushing the disk cache via an local, which I never would have thought to look for on my own. This is why we have people around like Robert, I can ask, which is awesome. But I went back and double-checked and like, all of that is there. Like I did all the stuff Robert said to do.
[John Gallagher] [16:04] So I did the thing that Dave has said this to me probably a half dozen times in the last two years is like, if we have a problem, and we don't have enough information to fix it, what other information do we wish we had? So like go add extra logging or details or whatever. So I opened a pull request, and I was like, okay, Installinator gets this package of data from Wicket, and then it writes it to disk. So there's like, there's the first time that we get it from appear and there's sort of like the last time that we've sort of written it, and we're going to claim success. I'll put checks at both ends of that, right?
[John Gallagher] [16:39] So after we fetch data from Wicket, I'll just double-check the SHA-two 56 hash, right? Like we ask for it by hash, so we're supposed to get a payload that exactly matches that hash. That's what Wicked is supposed to give us. So I put a check-in at the very beginning, after we download the thing. And then at the end, after we write it to disc, I just go back and reread the disc and compute the hash again and make sure it matches the thing that we already checked that we pulled from Wicket, which, again, like we asked, this whole process is, like, based on SHA two fifty-six, hashes matching.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:11] Yeah. So With assumption that we will catch this corruption, we will we wrote something that we thought was good, then we read it back. I mean, my assumption is when we read it back, it's going to be corrupt. But I do think just to put a really, I think, fine point on this because this is a one of the most important lessons from this whole adventure starts kinda here because we did not have enough information to debug the problem. We had a corrupt file system, which is very troubling.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:40] We had corrupt data. And too often, you kind of one can create for oneself a false dichotomy of I'm going to root cause it, or I'm going to close it as I wish this were not a bug. And there is actually a very important essential in this case and in many cases, middle ground, which is what information do I wish I had that I don't have? And how can I take a half measure? It's not satisfying because we're not fixing the problem.
[Bryan Can trill] [18:11] We're modifying the software without fixing the problem. But we are now going to hope that this bifurcates the problem space in some way. That we are now going to take an implicit failure and make it an explicit failure, or we're going to have an assertion failure trip. We're gonna in some way, we're going to when we see this again, we're going to have more information. I think this is like one of the most important things about this.
[Bryan Can trill] [18:33] Sorry, John. Not to again, not to put too sharp a point on it, but this is really essential.
[John Gallagher] [18:37] No, it's great. Like one of the one of the best things to me about working at Oxide is that when something goes wrong, especially if it's nondeterministic, like the sled thing that Sean ran into, right? He had updated like, I don't know, a dozen sleds. Two of them failed with this error. And when he re updated them, everything was fine.
[John Gallagher] [18:55] And it's sort of tempting to just let those things go, right? Like, oh, if it's like a problem, but you just like try it again and everything's fine, just let it go. Like, I've certainly had coworkers in the past where like, that's enough to move on. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [19:08] I wait. We can just I don't know what you're talking about that other thing that happened. Like, let's just unsee that.
[John Gallagher] [19:13] Exactly. Like, it's its just we hit some weird edge case. I'm sure it's fine. Right? But no one at Oxide has this attitude, which is fantastic.
[John Gallagher] [19:20] Right? It's like, no, no, no, that should never happen.
[Bryan Can trill] [19:22] If it
[John Gallagher] [19:22] did, we need to figure out why that happened. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
[John Gallagher] [19:27] So that led to this PR. I'll just link to the PR. And in review, Rain said so in the initial version, just put the checks in. And in the in PR review, Rain said, hey, should we retry if we if we, like, try to fetch the thing from Wicket and fail, should we retry? And I was like I said no.
[John Gallagher] [19:46] And I put a comment, a block comment in the code. The PR is very short. I basically put my reasoning for why we should not retry. And that is that Wicket has unpacked this Tough Repository that has its own like cryptographic checks on the contents. It's now holding all of those contents in memory.
[John Gallagher] [20:06] We have been told the exact SHA-two 56 of a thing we're supposed to fetch from it. And we ask for it by that SHA-two 56. We're like, hey, Wicked, give me the OS image with this SHA-two56. And it streams it to us over the Bootstrap network, right? At this point, we're not going over the management network and the UART, right?
[John Gallagher] [20:23] This is just regular old TCP between like two closely connected computers going from its memory to my memory, and we've addressed the thing by hash. Like any way that this could go wrong is like super disturbing. Right? So I put this check-in basically because I was afraid that Wicket was like serving the wrong artifact, right? Like our Tough repository has multiple OS images in it.
[John Gallagher] [20:46] Maybe somehow, even though we're indexing by hash, maybe it just screwed up and unpacked the wrong thing and put it in the wrong place, whatever, right? Like that's my expectation is that if this one fails, it's because there's actually a bug in Wicket. It's giving the sled the wrong data in some nondeterministic case or something.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:02] Right. Also, it's great that you're thinking about like the failure modes in your own software. I mean, my mind is just running wild. I mean, the concern I mean, we built our own computer. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [21:13] We trained these dims. Like, this is
[Adam Levinthal] [21:16] feel like anything could be. Like, spin the wheel. Right? Could be anything.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:19] Spin the wheel. And in particular, like, you know, it is ECC memory, and we don't like, we hadn't had problems with memory corruption yet. But it's like begin that is, like, where you get, like, really, really terrifying, where we have something that is deeply wrong in the hardware or the lowest level of the systems. We're just like anyway, I'm so glad you did this because, like, I let's go I'd, I'm pretty much braced though for there is something that is that this is something in the IO path that is corrupting this on the way down. It's kind of my thinking.
[Adam Levinthal] [21:52] And, John, this is all TCP. Right? This isn't UDP?
[John Gallagher] [21:55] Yes. So UDP was used to, so the management network runs exclusively on UDP. So, like, streaming this recovery Installinator image over goes UDP and then over UART. But at this point, Installinator is running on the host. It's brought up the real networking stack, and it has found Wicket and is just talking TCP to Wicket to download this stuff.
[Rain Pahari] [22:15] HTTP, TCP, like all
[John Gallagher] [22:17] of Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So I put these checks in, I put the one in at the front and the one at the end, I'm expecting the one at the end to fail, right? We have written sort of like Brian, you said earlier, I'm expecting we've got some kind of like data, you know, file system corruption. We wrote a thing, something got screwed up along the way, and then we read it back and the data's missing or has corruption or whatever.
[John Gallagher] [22:39] So I merged this and then I, like my part in the story basically ends because I literally went on vacation for the very next week. So, I will hand it over to someone who was around that next week, I think.
[Bryan Can trill] [22:50] Are you your part of the story takes a hiatus, John. It does not end. I the having don't know how much of the the footage, the security footage A lot us debugging you ended up watching. But, John, you were very active in what was actually we came to know as data corruption week, I'd like to say. So we saved the good bits for when you returned from vacation.
[Bryan Can trill] [23:13] But so you disappear on vacation. And yeah. Then I guess, Rain, I guess you're up next. Right? Because now John has disappeared, and we this thing that we assumed was happening very rarely, as it turns out, not happening as rarely as we thought.
[Rain Pahari] [23:31] Yeah. If I don't remember the exact statistics, but it would like to happen to at least I remembered like two or three sleds every time you did like a recovery of like, you know, the full rack. Like you would encounter two or three sleds which had something, you know, some kind of data corruption going on. And like, you know, the nice thing about John added was that, you know, we'd kind of get like an error message in Wicket. So we would get a message a bit earlier, right?
[Rain Pahari] [24:00] So, you know what, John didn't fix it, right? But John did add like, so that, you get an error message inside Wicket while you know, while Installinator is running as opposed to getting an error message all the way at the end. So I think at this point, think Brian, did you pull me in? I think somebody was like, Hey, know, this is like, Installation isn't downloading the right data. And I think I, at that point, kind of, you know, I was like, okay, I think I should, like, take a look at this.
[Rain Pahari] [24:36] I
[Bryan Can trill] [24:36] remember So which itself was a major surprise. That I think that again, I think that the assumption that more or less we had all had, I think, is that the that that that there was something happening between Installinator getting this data and actually getting it to stable storage. But Installinator's like, when it's getting the data, it's wrong. And we're like,
[Rain Pahari] [25:01] Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, right. So John added two separate checks for hashes.
[Rain Pahari] [25:05] It was actually the first check that failed, not the second one. And yeah, I mean, was, I think, just like, you know, incredibly surprising. And I think what I remember is that I think there were definitely a lot of calls, but, like, I think, you know, one of the first things is, like, could this be something inside Tokyo or something inside installing?
[Bryan Can trill] [25:33] Because I think if you just say that, like, hey. There's corruption happening.
[Rain Pahari] [25:37] Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:38] Like, when you've received this, it's corrupt. Our and we kind of our thought is like, alright. Well, when do we we we know that, like, the image this image is a good image because other nodes are able to get this. So it's like Right. There's got to be something in the end I think this thought now, at least my thought I don't know why my thought goes, like, super dark on the CFS path and less dark on the networking path.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:00] But my thought is like, okay. There's got to be something in user land, in Bogus. You're saying rain. There's got to be something in there that is somehow corrupting data, which definitely seems strange. But I don't know.
[Rain Pahari] [26:11] I think, you know, one of kind of one of the things we decided to do pretty early is that we decided to add some instrumentation to Tokyo to try and rule out Tokyo as much as possible. Brian, did you want to talk about, like, some of the d trace probes and stuff that we added?
[Bryan Can trill] [26:27] Yeah. Did we add that as part of this? I got I kind of and this is where it gets a bit murky for me too. Because, Rain, at some point
[Rain Pahari] [26:36] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:36] You get this to be you're able to separate Installinator from this kind of this kind of difficult environment that it's running in Right. Or a little one that's a little harder to bug, and you're able to get this just kind of reproducible on a Gimlet. I think because I think that and that was a major lurch towards getting this thing understandable.
[Rain Pahari] [26:57] Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, like, Installinator is this automated process, right? Like it's part of this bigger process and it just kind of is this autonomous thing that runs. So I think, you know, one of the first things we did was that we can actually run Installinator as like an independent binary.
[Rain Pahari] [27:16] And so, one of the first things we did was, okay, all right, we have a server running WOAD on another host. So, we're getting something like the production use case that is failing. But then over here, we're logged in over SSH, and we run Installation by hand over SSH doing the same things that the autonomous Installation would be doing. And we get to see these errors happen even with that. And like, you know, you run in a loop, like sometimes it works and sometimes it fails.
[Rain Pahari] [27:55] It was failing like I think 10 to 15% of the time or so, which is Right. Know, is Which
[Bryan Can trill] [28:03] is a very, I mean, a very tough number because it on the one hand, it means you 100% do not have a product at and yet it's like, but it is actually working most of the time. Like, whatever is happening is nondeterministic. And then, Rain, sometime in here and I don't think I'm getting too ahead of things, but stop me if I am. We're like, okay. You well, you're the need to actually we know that there is no, I think, run of zeros in the actual tough binary that we're getting.
[Bryan Can trill] [28:42] So we begin to modify the code to be like and we know that, like, one of the the the determined that, like, when we were seeing corruption, we're seeing the wrong thing. One of the manifestations of this, which is not like not all of them, but one of the manifestations is we were expecting to see data, and we got zeros.
[Rain Pahari] [29:01] Yeah. And I think the way we figured that out is that we told Innovator to write So rather than to write it out to M. Two as an image, we write it out to a file on disk, right? And then we SCP the file over, and then we did like a hex DIV of the contents of what we actually want to see and what we don't, and what we were actually seeing. And like in all the cases we saw that there was like some weird run of zeros inside the image that we installed it was actually fetching.
[Rain Pahari] [29:38] And, you know, we knew that the actual artifact because it's a GUITAR ball did not have any such round of zeros. So, you know, one of the things I did was that I think I went in and tweaked Tokyo source code because, you know, at this point it's like, okay, you know, is the bug in Tokyo? Is the bug in the senator? Is the bug in like Rust async somewhere? Is the bug in like, you know, the network stack?
[Rain Pahari] [30:00] Where is it? And so on of the things I ended up doing as part of this was that I went into Tokyo source code in like the net library and I wrote a little loop, was like, you know, like if I think it was more than 32 bytes and like if the whole like thing is like 32 zeros or more, then just panic, right? And, you know, like seeing that and like actually being able to replace that was I think a major step because what that did was that because this was deep inside Tower's internal, so this was data that we had just fetched off the wire, right? Right. Doesn't have any Tokyo machinery.
[Rain Pahari] [30:45] Like we've stripped it all down to literally like to receive some data into a buffer and read that buffer and see if that buffer has a lot of zeros. And if it has a lot of zeros, then panic.
[Bryan Can trill] [30:58] Then panic. Part of the reason that you were pulling this closer and closer to pulling off the wire is because the software that we were running through to go from between the wire and actually Installinator, like, actually doing something with it, you know because I know you had written some or modified some of the software in there. Because I just remember at some point you being like, I like, how like, I did I did property based testing for this. Like, I don't see how this could be broken. Like, you were genuinely, like, frustrated at the gods of, like, I accept that this is a bug in my code.
[Bryan Can trill] [31:32] And I, like, I and I just know that feeling where, like, I'm beginning to break down because, like, I think this code is correct, but it's obviously not correct. And so you're just, like, chipping away at it to be like, okay. It's got to be in my code. I've to be in this code. And then it gets to point where it's like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [31:46] Wait a minute. Now I'm like, before my codes my code hasn't executed yet. Yeah. And we're getting a run of zeros. And we
[John Gallagher] [31:54] I should add something here. I think this this was sort of important that we put the checks on so earlier I said we pull two artifacts over the network. We pull in the OS image, and we pull in this GZIP tarball of all the control plane artifacts. We were seeing the control plane artifact fail at a much higher frequency than the OS image fail, even though it's not even it's not different code paths at all. It's just like the same code path with two different hashes.
[John Gallagher] [32:20] But once we figured out the zero thing, the host OS image is not compressed at the point at which we're downloading it, and it actually does have long runs of zeros. So if we were saying corruption that zeroed out buffers as they were coming in, like a lot of the time as we're pulling the OS image, that's actually fine because the real data was also all zeros. But because we were because we were also checking this GZIP tarball control plane artifacts, that one failed much more often.
[Bryan Can trill] [32:49] Yeah. Right. Right. Well, so we get to the point where, Rain, you write code that says, if we've got a run of zeros here, we're going to panic. Yep.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:04] Right. And then at some point, we decide to also, remember, like, one of the moments when you really begin to feel the fabric of reality start to tear is you wrote code saying, if we've got a run of zeros here, we're going to panic. And then we're gonna printing like the actual buffer. Yep. And then panic.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:29] Yep. And what we were seeing was that we would hit that code path and just say we detected a run of zeros. But then the printing would print the correct non-corrupted data. And Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [33:45] It was super crazy. This is about when I The the this
[Bryan Can trill] [33:48] when we yeah. Yeah. This is when we begin to, like, slip. Just like slip. And you begin to realize, like, oh, oh god.
[Adam Levinthal] [34:00] And I know you just said it, but to reiterate, the code was literally, like, if zero, print value zero.
[Bryan Can trill] [34:07] Print the value.
[Adam Levinthal] [34:08] Print the value, which like, you're like, hey, dummy. You just said it was zero. Like, why are you printing it? It's got to be zero and it's not zero.
[Bryan Can trill] [34:16] Actually it's good data now. Now it's good. Now it's been uncorrupted. It is it was corrupted. Now I have corrupted it back to its original state.
[Adam Levinthal] [34:26] And I just remember single stepping through that, and we're like, yep. We see it. We see it. Furthermore, we see it. Not a bunch of zeros.
[Adam Levinthal] [34:31] It's not waited a minute. Why is it not a bunch of zeros? Like, we just checked that it was a bunch of zeros, and it was a second ago. It was just, you're right, tearing at the fabric of reality.
[Bryan Can trill] [34:41] Fabric of reality. Okay. So the and the and actually and maybe it was before we got the brief. Because then the other thing that was very odd is like, okay. So we've got, like, why are we x ING this conditional incorrectly.
[Bryan Can trill] [34:54] We're using Trace a lot heavily, obviously. And in particular, and also I would say that, you know, in our strangest reference to a previous episode, Adam, We in all of this, we record an episode of Oxide and Friends on manufacturing the first rack.
[Adam Levinthal] [35:11] That's right. That's right. Right. Like, you have to leave the call and like
[Bryan Can trill] [35:16] We have to like we have to take a quick break from data corruption week to go talk about manufacturing the rack and pretend like we still have a product, because by the way, I'm pretty sure we don't right now because all it does is corrupt data some fraction of the time. So let's just put on our bravest possible face. Let's just, you know, splash some cold water over those tears and, let's do it, Steve. Let's let's record the podcast everybody. So, I don't know.
[Bryan Can trill] [35:42] Have to go re listen to that podcast knowing that I was a part of me was like actually terrified that we had no company. They so that ends. Great podcast. Thank you for all the operational operations folks that, Eric Anderson, much of other folks that that joined us for that. And then we get back on to continue to debug.
[Bryan Can trill] [35:59] And we just go further and further down the rabbit hole of just, like, nothing. Everything is weird. And, Adam, did you really listen to any of that, by the way? Because we get to the point where we're using Trace all the time to try to understand this. We are so one of the things that we're doing is like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [36:22] So there is some like, are we seeing like, we're we're snooping the wrong line. We got cache corruption. We've we've got if there's something, some CPU structure is somehow bit is incorrect. So what we would do is we would, stop the process after it hit that conditional. And then we would, we would stop it for some period of time and resume it.
[Bryan Can trill] [36:47] And it would then the ePrintLAN would print the correct data. And you're like, what? And then you would go in, and you would inspect it. If you would is you inspected the if you took a dump at that point when you hit that, you know, if it's zero, if you actually took an actual if the system aborted and panicked, you would see one thing. If you went in with trace me, you would see something else.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:11] So it's like the we begin so trace me is a an a detract action that traces memory, and we begin to think that actually trace me itself is wrong. Yeah. And the like, maybe that's for the problem. And then we have actually like two bugs here. We've got like a data corruption bug, and then we've got like a trace me bug where it's showing that which it just nothing made sense in there.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:38] It just absolutely nothing made sense. And we are trying we're finding, like, okay. So what what what if we actually, like, when we hit this when we hit the corruption because the thing is, like, once you started hitting the corruption, you would continue to hit the corruption, which is very odd. If you didn't hit the corruption, you wouldn't hit the corruption. Once you started seeing it, you would continue to see it.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:00] And the so that was kind of an an a strange artifact. We did the experiment of like, okay. When you hit when you hit this conditional, I detected the corruption. And the so instead of panicking, we continue to operate. Let's stop the process.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:18] Let's move it onto a CPU that it's never been on before. So we're actually going to create a processor set with a couple of cores over here. They're never going to run this process before. This process has started seeing the corruption, and it started kind of flickering with the with this data is, like, flickering between corrupt and not corrupt. We'll move the process over to the CPUs that is never executed on.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:42] And I'm like, okay, this is going to be then the flickering will go away because there's some there is some state, some machine state that is incorrect. Yeah. And then, but you would move it to Steve using it seen, and would continue to flicker. And you're like, what's going on? What's my
[Adam Levinthal] [38:59] And if and if some of this feels like what was the hypothesis there? I think we have departed from, like, scientific method to sort of what if we randomly perturb the system and then see what happens.
[Bryan Can trill] [39:14] Okay. Because Actually, we are the the is true. And so I think that we the the methodology I mean, we're definitely bewildered. Yes. I think we are and this so the an adage of mine is that bugs can be psychotic or nonreproducible, but not both.
[Bryan Can trill] [39:33] And when I say psychotic, I don't mean just like difficult. I mean, like, when I say psychotic, I mean ripping at the fabric of reality. The fabric of reality that is created by the computer, by the operating system, it creates these abstractions that we view as kind of as bedrock abstractions. And when those start when those start to break, that's a psychotic bug. You know, when you are when you have a thread that is executing on two CPUs at the same time, it's like, it can't be.
[Adam Levinthal] [40:06] It's like Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [40:07] Well, no. It is I know no. It definitely shouldn't. That's right. But it's like, you know, these and the abstraction is designed to prevent that.
[Bryan Can trill] [40:16] And if that does happen, if you begin to have you and Adam, we used to call these can't happen panics. Right. You have a have state in the program that, like, this state can't happen. Like, the the the program is it is not the program's a victim here. And the perpetrator is much deeper in the stack of reality.
[Bryan Can trill] [40:38] And those bugs don't have like, those bugs have to be reproducible. If those bugs are nonreproducible, you won't debug them. So you when you have one of these things that you just see once or is nonreproducible, the actual act needs to be just like, John, your first act of, you know, of just, like, checking this stuff at different phases, see if we can get this to fail differently, see if we can get to be more reproducible. Oh, good news. It's happening all the time.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:05] Oh, okay. Great. Then, you know, being able to so we're trying to, like, tighten the cordon around this thing. Yeah. But as we're trying to tighten the cordon, it's like, it keeps, like, spilling out and, like, showing up another it's just like, the fuck is going on?
[Bryan Can trill] [41:21] And at some point in this, Adam, you and Dave are like and this is I mean, know you you you I couldn't find the exact line. I know it's said there's, like, whatever, you know, ten hours of video of us Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [41:32] I just found it. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:33] Oh, did you find it? Yeah. Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [41:35] Yeah. I think, you know, Dave and I I I I think we had, as it's becoming clear, many hypotheses, like none of them satisfying in any way. And I think this is before we stumbled onto the phraseology of, like, haunted virtual memory or anything like that. But Dave and I were wondering if this was a virtual memory bug of some description. And, like and to be clear, the thought was exactly as deep as that, which should say not particularly deep at all.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:07] Not particularly deep. Yes. Not particularly deep. And you were like, we think it's a virtual memory bug. And I'm like
[Adam Levinthal] [42:13] You're like How? You're like, what? Okay. You can create a bug with your mind. Like, describe the bug.
[Adam Levinthal] [42:20] And I mean, which is totally reasonable if a bit acerbic. You know? But, like, the idea of being like, what? Okay. Like, let's say there's a VM bug.
[Adam Levinthal] [42:30] Like, just describe anything about this VM bug. And, yeah, we were not we did not have a much more satisfying answer than that.
[John Gallagher] [42:39] This sort of gets to what you said earlier about, like, you gave me credit for assuming there was a problem in my code. Right? Like, as soon as we got to the point where rain injects the like, if it's all zeros printed, and it's not zeros anymore, that killed, like, every reasonable hypothesis that we had from that point moving forward. Right? Somebody would throw out a hypothesis, and I'm like, that that can't be it because that that can't possibly explain what we're seeing there.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:02] That's right. That's right. And I think and now, I mean, this is the other important thing is that when you begin you know, you're kind of trying to get this cordon around this problem, and you're beginning to get a lot of the symptoms and the symptoms are very, very bizarre. And now anything has to ex mean, you need to be able to explain all this stuff. And, you know, I think that one of the pathologies, I don't think we see it oxide, but I think one sees in the broader world, is where people find a bug that's not the bug.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:27] And, you know, in this case, like, it's not even if you were to find an other data corruption in the program, you'd be like, well, okay. That's great. Like, that's a bug. But that does not have that can't be this bug because this bug has got these very, very odd symptoms of this kind of flickering on and off of going oscillating between our actual correct data. This is what is so bizarre about this thing, which was unlike honestly anything I'd ever seen, where it's like you're seeing the correct data, and then it's like, nope.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:59] Now you're seeing like just wildly wrong data, like not even close to correct data. And then, oh, how there's your correct data again. It's back. It's like Yeah. What the fuck?
[Bryan Can trill] [44:06] And so you're like, you know, it's a VM bug. It's like, oh, the okay. Walk me through it. Like, the mean, because, like, the the the mean, it the VM system is not a magician. It's not, like, responsible for it's not the memory system.
[Bryan Can trill] [44:21] It's its the VM system. Oh, what it does is, like, it establishes mappings. It loads those into hardware translation, and then it gets out of the way. It isn't like, oh, let me just go, like, create a thread that, like, fucks everyone's page tables. Let me go do that.
[Bryan Can trill] [44:33] It's like and actually, to make it hilarious, I'll oscillate between, like, memory I make up and their actual true memory. It's like, it doesn't do that. It do I mean, I guess you could envision a system that did, but, that ends I think the closest I got to coherent close yeah. I think the closest
[Adam Levinthal] [44:47] I got to coherent on that was like, what if there's some sort of page aliasing? Right? Like, the, you know, physical page is like mapped in two different locations, and you're sort of fighting over it. But of course, that does not explain why like, it explains corruption. Doesn't explain why, like, you would pull a rabbit out the hat, and suddenly it would be the right data again.
[Adam Levinthal] [45:07] So That's right. You know? Well
[Bryan Can trill] [45:10] and I think this, so then this is where you do get to the thing. So, like, there are, and we don't you don't have these issues on our on and on this particular microprocessor. But there are if you have a virtually the virtual index physically tagged cache, you can end up with aliases in that cache, right, where you can have, and you can have the same you can and there are things that you need to go do to make sure that you don't actually have you can get data corruption if you don't manage those things properly. But the problem is, like, one, like, a VAC alias does not symptomatically resemble us at all. Two, when we move that process to a different CPU, and it continued to flicker and if you take one that's, like, not flickering, and you move that to a new CPU, it continues to not flicker.
[Bryan Can trill] [45:56] It's like, what? I no. I just like again, this just makes nothing makes sense.
[Adam Levinthal] [46:05] So we were starting to think we had it reproducible on, you know, pretty readily. Right? Like, we I think at this point Which itself is solace, actually.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:14] Yeah. Absolutely. Not just solace from because now, like, my like, it's not just solace from the perspective of, okay, this is, we do have a cordon around this thing, like, we're being, but it's also, like, the another thing that is so strange about this is like so reproducible over here. If we had something again like my fear of like, you've got a dim issue where you've got like corruption in like the memory system of the where we have, like, an SI issue. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [46:43] It's like, it would not be this reproducible. Right. Or if we had, it's like, what's going why is this and the fact that it was, like, so strangely reproducible was flawless to me that we were not, and we're not seeing, like, cord ops all over the place. Right? Which is what we would see, you know, if you really screw up.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:00] If you have truly, truly rampant data corruption, like, you will see this is when LS dumps core. You know? Right. And these are not good days. Exactly.
[Adam Levinthal] [47:12] So so so we had reproducible. We but we had a still had lots of theories. Like, we thought k p t so KPI was potentially involved. We thought may as you said, maybe trace me was lying to us, although we couldn't really get our heads around that one particularly.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:30] Well, and then you know, was like, okay, trace me's lying to us. Like, I'm gonna I one point, you're like, I'm going to go look at the code for trace me.
[Adam Levinthal] [47:36] And I'm what All six lines of it are whatever.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:39] I'm like, I don't know what you think you're going to find. But like, Trey oh, yeah. Because I mean, it's its tracing memory. It's really not like you're going to find what you's like, you're like, this is like six lines. I don't see how this like, Like, oh, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:52] Sorry. Did you miss the flickering code I put in the trace me where I give you the wrong answers some fraction of the time when I roll the die and give the wrong answer? Yeah. Sorry.
[Adam Levinthal] [48:00] Yeah. Was that a mistake? Should I not have done that?
[Bryan Can trill] [48:02] Exactly. And
[Adam Levinthal] [48:05] and we also we still had not let go of the fact that or the thought that it might just be I think we described it as sort of like a pedestrian user land bug. Like, basically, we've got multiple threads in this process that are somehow conspiring
[Bryan Can trill] [48:19] to fucking sell. I am gone. At the by the time we are flickering, I'm like, this is not like, this process is a 100% victim. I don't understand how yet. I just watched
[Adam Levinthal] [48:30] you and Keith having a chat about that. We're we're we're, like, wrapping up for the day, and we're like, yeah. That's that's a real possibility. Maybe you're just maybe you're just
[Rain Pahari] [48:37] I think one of the things we did see looking at some of this history was that, I think if we had pinned it to one specific CPU, we wouldn't be able to reproduce it. But then if you pin it to like, say eight out of the CPUs, you would be able to reproduce it. So I think that was like, you know, one of the concerns about that. But, I mean, I don't I personally like yeah. I I I think I don't see how you get the flickering from there.
[Rain Pahari] [49:05] Yeah. Like We also
[John Gallagher] [49:07] like, the this thing that would pretty reliably reproduce did not reproduce on any other system. Like, we ran it under Linux. We ran it under macOS and never saw it. Right?
[Adam Levinthal] [49:16] Particular, not on a Lumps on stock here. This was just Yes. On the homegrown stuff.
[John Gallagher] [49:22] That's right.
[Adam Levinthal] [49:22] Which made it even more terrifying, of course.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:25] Yeah. Exactly. Which is yeah. I'm glad you find that relaxing, John. That definitely caused me shortness of breath.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:29] The but, no, it is did make it harder. And I think, Adam, you're right that in that we'm like, if you suppose that we have a there's a bug in trace me and there's a bug in the program. So the the the flicker is somehow being caused by trace me and the truth, but then you're like, but why is the program is actually detecting the corruption? Also, we're here because the program detected corruption.
[Adam Levinthal] [49:53] That's right. And we just did an if zero print value, and it's not zeros. Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:57] It's not zeros.
[Adam Levinthal] [49:59] Anyway, I think it's safe to say we did not have a solid hypothesis.
[Bryan Can trill] [50:03] Though and then I also love the fact that you could stop the process for like a minute and walk away, then resume it, and it would start flickering again. Yeah. So you could stop the process for a minute, just move it on to a CPU it's ever been on, and it would flicker. And you're like, what is going on? Alright.
[Bryan Can trill] [50:18] So that is like but again, I think we end that night being like, we're going to get this thing. And whatever it is, it is this is super weird, but it is, it is the fact that it's so isolated is actually and also, you know, the other thing that is actually that I took solace in, the operating system is not dying. Because the operating system itself is a stress test of many things. The operating system itself really cannot tolerate, like, having its memory corrupted.
[Adam Levinthal] [50:44] Yeah. It's pretty sensitive to that really.
[Bryan Can trill] [50:46] Do you remember? One of our many dumb lunch conversations at Fish works, we're like, if we start corrupting memory, how much memory can we just go corrupt before the operating system panics? And then and then we like we get started corrupting memory and of course, we didn't really have the patience to do this. And so we just like started corrupting memory randomly, nothing panics. We get a little bit bored.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:11] Like, okay, let's do something different. Let's just actually like let's change mute enter to like not.
[Adam Levinthal] [51:16] I do remember that. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:18] And then let's see how long it then I and then like you get like you write the knob and like the system immediately blows up on the interrupt. It really does it is does not it
[Adam Levinthal] [51:27] does not last. Mutual exclusion, like the operating system takes pretty seriously.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:31] Pretty okay. Mister Eddent about mutual exclusion. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:37] Exactly. But, so the fact that the operating system is not dying is also like this is a big program. It runs all the time. It very much relies on the correctness of the hardware at the least. But goddamn, this is weird, whatever this is.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:52] So then we get to the next day. And, Adam, this is when and I I I'm I'm sure you went to rewatch the Yeah. Us getting back together that next morning.
[Adam Levinthal] [52:02] Yeah. I and we did and not initially, but like, I think everyone we had pulled in more folks at this point. We were trying lots of different theories on lots of different systems.
[Bryan Can trill] [52:12] John is definitely back from vacation because, John, I I I was Yeah. You were I don't know if you yeah. Well, John's like
[John Gallagher] [52:20] Look. I got back from vacation, and Brian is like, so while you were gone, we saw this comment that you wrote. Right? Which is like this the one that I put in there, why we should never retry this because the only possible explanation is something horrible has gone wrong. And Brian basically said, hey, by the way, something horrible is going on.
[John Gallagher] [52:36] Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [52:37] Oh my gosh. I forgot that. Yeah. Yeah. Well, welcome back from vacation.
[Bryan Can trill] [52:42] It's all broken. Unfortunately, you thought we but the so we're yeah. We're all kinda in there.
[Adam Levinthal] [52:47] Yeah. And I feel like, you know, there's this aphorism that, like, all systems problems are either kernel problems or compiler problems. And I feel like in the back of my mind, I was trying to turn this into a spreadsheet problem. So I was, like, just doing sort of random analysis on the virtual addresses. And the weird thing that I kicked over was, like, all the virtual addresses of the buffers that we were that were corrupted were really highly clustered.
[Adam Levinthal] [53:15] In fact, we had this a heap that was almost, like, I think, like, two gigabytes in size, and all the addresses came from a range that was, like, 600 k or something in size. So it's just a teeny fraction of the heap. And I had no idea what to make of that. I almost hesitated to bring it up just because if it was such a like, I mean, clearly meaningful, but also like, yeah. So what?
[Adam Levinthal] [53:42] Like, I have no idea what this could possibly mean.
[Bryan Can trill] [53:45] Yeah. Yeah. And my, my comment that this might be a VM bug was so, like, so poorly received that maybe I'll just keep my comments to myself.
[Adam Levinthal] [53:52] My smart ideas to myself. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [53:55] I was but no. So this I mean and you and I don't I don't know. And actually, even relistening to it, I honestly can't tell if it's just like false modesty or if you genuinely don't know if it's relevant. But, you know, I think we get I think you can just live in that kind of ambiguity.
[Adam Levinthal] [54:09] That was definitely not false modesty. That was definitely like, I am a little embarrassed that I was just, like, looking at numbers. Like, I felt like I was doing astrology on virtual addresses.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:24] You know, these are all Sagittarius. Have you just used this? There's one that's a Virgo. Never mind.
[Adam Levinthal] [54:30] Actually, Scratch that. Oh, what a Sagittarius thing to say.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:33] Yeah. Exactly. That's right. No. But I am like, that is definitely relevant.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:38] I think that is definitely relevant. And oh, okay. That and you look at it, and it's like, okay. They're not like they're not so tightly clustered that they're I mean, this is part of what made this is like, it's not like they're in the same cache line by a long shot. They're within the same 100 k range.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:54] Turn turns out it was actually like it would have been a two me grange.
[Adam Levinthal] [54:57] Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:58] Spoiler. Spoiler alert. But we but 600 k when you've got a multi gigabyte heap is like, okay. That is definitely interesting. And this is like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:12] This is and we started calling it the haunted VA region. Yes. And it's like, we have a haunted VA region. And this is where, so there are a couple of things that are kind of interesting.
[Adam Levinthal] [55:22] And to be clear, VA meaning virtual address.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:24] Virtual address. Yeah. And the thing so one thing that to me was really about that. First, the and we've said this in the past, but debugging is something that really scales very well, kind of surprisingly well, actually. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:37] And then it's also, like, really amenable to remote work. You know, the know, we've talked about it, you know, in our RTO or GTFO episode in terms of, like, the importance of being remote oxide. But the US, the fact that we are, and we're obviously recording it as well. But, like, the fact that you can have people be in the conversation at zero cost to the conversation. You know?
[Bryan Can trill] [56:02] And there's no whereas like in an office, you're like, okay. Like, now, like, you've 30 people gathering around, like, one person, which inevitably is going to be like, do you really use Dvorak? You know, or something like that. You know I mean? Like, there 's's going to be, and you're going to be like, you know, actually, there's a faster way to use that.
[Bryan Can trill] [56:16] And you just like it just, and it feels like inevitably there's, like, a level of, like, backseat driving that's just in the monkey brain. Yeah. Well, there's I mean,
[Adam Levinthal] [56:22] so much value yeah. I mean, it's just the recording it because then I remember Keith joined in, but late, but then he was able to catch up by, like, watching part of the recording. Yeah. I mean, the the the ergonomics of it, as you're saying, you know, while I'm watching you type into the shared screen, I can be off, you know, piping, you know, my astrology, you know, results, you know, through, know, set or whatever.
[Bryan Can trill] [56:44] Yeah. That's right. And I think, and then you can also it is paralyzes very well because people can just go off and like, I'm just gonna kinda quietly go off and explore this idea that I've got. And I like, I'm kinda getting all the data, but I'm not and there's no kind of drag induced from that. And then so once we are at that point of like, oh, wow, this VA region is interesting, then John and Dave both kind of in parallel and talking to one another, but begin to do work on different ways of reproducing this.
[Bryan Can trill] [57:11] I think Dave was actually writing maybe even a c program. John, you were doing this ballooning where you're like, okay. Let's take this thing, and I'm going to inject a balloon, and I'm going to force its VA range to be into the so it's in other words, I want I wanna force this thing to allocate out of when it allocates in the heap, I want to be able to force it to allocate in a certain address range.
[John Gallagher] [57:33] Yeah. I have completely forgotten about that. I had just run across a commit. So we ended up I mean, maybe this is jumping ahead a little bit. We ended up actually committing a variant of that balloon exercise to Installinator itself as a workaround until we could get this thing really fixed.
[Bryan Can trill] [57:47] Oh, wow.
[John Gallagher] [57:48] Do you remember this? So this
[Bryan Can trill] [57:49] I actually forgot. I'd forgotten that. Wow.
[John Gallagher] [57:51] So this commit still exists. Basically, we just we allocated a DEC of two gigabytes at the heap at the very top of main as a way of sort of forcing us past the haunted VA region. And we merged this the day and as soon as we realized that's what the problem was, I don't know how long it's going to take to actually fix it, but we can just avoid the region completely by just sticking a vector there that we never touch and just guarantee everything else is above it.
[Adam Levinthal] [58:20] I'm rewatching the recording, I love how quickly we latched onto the term balloon because it's such a fucking stupid idea of, like, hey. Why don't we just create a VAC? And then I think you had to, like, print out the last element of it to, like we were sort of worried about the compiler outsmarting us. And, yeah, Balloon kind of sanitizes what is kind of a dumb idea that we all came to and thought was the best idea we had.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:47] Yeah. And I and, actually, you know, just rewatched that. I'm not sure what did John I think John, you came up the term balloon. But certainly, you know, VMware's got the term balloon
[Adam Levinthal] [58:57] Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:57] To force a guest. Yeah. You they kind of to force a guest to get rid of memory. So and Adam, I don't know if you just rewatched that recording today. When we got to the funded VA region, you may have you again, Keith is on there.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:13] You may have caught me saying, this looks like Rich, and I stop. I'm like, I won't say the rest of it. And so that that's a reference to Richmond sixteen, which is a bug that we had at Joint. And this is where the in different but different symptoms, but kind of rhymes in that there was a PA region that would get stepped on. And as it turns and minutes after boot.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:41] And this is actually Okay.
[Rain Pahari] [59:42] Is physical address.
[Bryan Can trill] [59:44] Physical address. And you can argue that the headwaters of Oxide can be found in Richmond 16 because this was the b m we believe it was the BMC that was doing this. So the BMC was just like stepping on our memory a long time after we had booted. Like, a long time being, like, you know, seconds, minute. It's just like, actually, I'm still using that memory, I think.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00:09] And it would, and it was one of these things where if we were chasing this thing for a long time before we realized, like, oh, it's actually hitting the same region, the same physical region. And we just ultimately ended up just being like, okay, we're just not going to allocate out of that region. But, it was so I stopped short of because I didn't wanna, you know, that, the Richmond 16 cast a long shadow, cast a long shadow at joint as did OS ten twenty-eight, which was another data corruption bug we had, that actually ultimately was data corruption that that could manifest itself in on disk data corruption because we pushed the corrupt data to the disk. So the the're like, we're beginning to get all these flashbacks. But when we were talking about the oh, we also did I don't know.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00:51] Again, I don't matter if you if you watched all that recording, We did have an interesting, like, so turn into Scooby-Doo, a little Scooby-Doo discussion there
[Adam Levinthal] [01:00:58] about Yes. We did. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:00] And I and I I I feel that this bears reemphasis because I feel that Scooby-Doo on the one hand has left the generational chasm. My kids all are like are Scooby-Doo scholars, which I appreciate. They definitely I mean, kids watch Scooby-Doo, which you can with you can drop a Scooby-Doo reference to basically any living human at this point. I because even the boomers going to get the because it was on he was on prime Scooby-Doo is ultimately like the fact that combines us.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:01:29] Third nation Shakespeare.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:31] Yes. It is. It is. It is really is. Furthermore, it really is.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:34] But with this very important shift where Scooby-Doo and I feel it is does represent a shift in the zeitgeist. When Scooby-Doo when we were kids, you know, there is's the ghost at the amusement park. And as it turns out, it's like, actually at the end, it's, you know, it's its the crooked operator who's trying to scare off the kids or whatever. You know? Always like I feel like real estate scams.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:55] Is that what? We're like real estate. That's right. It's like 30%. Don't you think that's right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:58] I feel it's like the but there was always an an a rational answer. And at some point between then and when my kids started watching the remade Scooby-Doo, like, no. The answer is it was a ghost. That's the conclusion. I'm like, what?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:18] Where's the end? It's like, no. No. Dad, it was a ghost. I'm like Who
[Adam Levinthal] [01:02:21] was the ghost?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:22] Acceptable. Who was the ghost?
[Adam Levinthal] [01:02:24] Part the post credit scene.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:25] Right? Where's the crooked real estate deal? This is obviously and I'm like, no. This is a real problem. This is like a decline in science the scientific education in this country where it's like, no.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:36] Now it's just like ghosts happen. And I'm like, you
[Adam Levinthal] [01:02:38] Sometimes know the answer is ghost.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:40] Straight line to, like, anti-vaxxers from this. I have to tell you. I mean, I just, you know, not to turn into one of those podcasts, but anyway, it's a problem. Love it. The I I I'm old school Scooby-Doo.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:50] We don't have the answer is not a ghost. The answer is a crook, and we're going to find the crook. But in the meantime, we have a haunted VA region. Until we actually find the crook and unmask them right now, it really does feel like a lot like a haunted VA region. And then while we're looking at the number, Keith is like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:15] Wait a minute. I actually recognize that that number. They in terms of the actual, like, hex address. And the hex address is where we map the RAM disk when we boot. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:29] So we end up with a mapping that we use to map the RAM disk that we intend to discard. This ends up being a is a is a temporary mapping. And Keith discovers pretty quickly that, oh, there's a bug. We don't correctly discard this mapping. And if we do correctly discard the mapping, then the problem goes away.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:00] And on the one hand, you're like, problem solved. And you're like, what? No. No. It's like the ghost can't be the answer.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:09] That's actually that's still having a ghost be the answer.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:04:11] Because it's its not a mapping, like, in this process. Right? Like, it's an it's a mapping in the kernel.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:19] It's a mapping in the kernel. It's a mapping in the kernel. And it is it like, that it is a kernel mapping, and this is a process. Like, things It's a process. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:34] Yeah. And it's like and so it's like, oh, well, it's a stowaway mapping that's getting from the kernel to the process. And then it's like and then flickering?
[Adam Levinthal] [01:04:43] And then leaving and then coming back.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:45] Leaving and then coming back? It's like, that's not making sense. But we do have, like, a kind of important breakthrough in that, okay, it does. If the mapping is present, this problem happens. And at the end in particular, we could see that if the mapping is present and at this point, by the way, we are actually, this is another, like, kind of important breakthrough.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:14] He's like, okay, we've got the haunted v a region. We don't need an installation into at all. We don't need any of this stuff. If this is like a and in particular, I'm like, actually, I can just act and I had kind of forgotten that we had done this. I can just use Trace to show the bug because I can do a using the copy in action, copies memory in from a user region into the kernel, and we can go into one of these, the haunted VA region, which we don't expect to be mapped in a process.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:47] So we would not expect this to that that copy and to be correct. We would expect to get an error. And just an artifact Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:05:54] Effectively like like a safe serve almost. You you you can imagine from Trace.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:59] That's right.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:06:00] Reading memory is not mapped, but if it's like a soft error rather than, like, crashing the process.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:05] Yeah. And something that's extremely important Trace is, like, it's very important that when you are doing a copy in from a process, for example, you're just tracing memory. If you give it an address that is incorrect, it's very important that the mean, obviously, we can't die. We can't panic the system clearly. So what Trace does, Trace gives you an error.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:22] It gives you an explicit error. Like, you tried to do this and that address is not there. But your D choice program continues to run. Like, the program's not aborted. You can but what is aborted is the clause that you're executing.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:33] So if, like, you have an error, it's like we know that we're we can't, we're not going to execute this clause any further because we've had this error. But we're going to allow the enabling to continue to operate. And so what that allowed us to do is like, alright. So what we're going to do is we're going to attempt this copy in and kind of do a bogus copy in, and then that should fail all the time. And then we're going to have an action after that actually, you know, does whatever we want to record that we got here, you know, aggregating by process anymore and how about what have you.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:07:02] And then you run that, you're like, I I I think I know what I'm going to see here, and it's very scary. And sure enough, you run this, and you're like, oh, yeah. All these processes, like, oh, yeah. Like, you know, config d and all these other processes that are running on the system, like, yeah, they all have this little bonus haunted VA region some fraction of the time as well.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:07:24] Right. Like, so in other words, like, if they had just constructed a pointer into that area, like, sometimes if they did a load or even a store, it might have worked.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:07:33] It might have worked. Okay. Yeah. That's the other thing is we realized. We were poisoning this region, and we buy storing to it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:07:41] And we begin to realize that, like, oh, if we store to it, another process will see the same corruption over time. And you're like, what the fuck? Okay. So the the, so there's some and then, like, we like, okay. So this memory and Keith was like, I can't remember if, like, if this memory is being reallocated or not.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:00] Like, I think it must not be being reallocated because otherwise, we'd be just kinda corrupting random memory all those all over the place. But we like, okay. So we are we and we now so we now can see this in every process, which is, and then we can also see that, like, okay, if I go into that page table and I if I clear the access bit in the kernel's page table, so clear the access bit, my Trace program that is doing the copy in is setting the access bit. And this is like, okay. This is both good and terrifying.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:39] Good because, like, we're beginning to connect some dots here and, like, there's blood in the water. We're definitely got we're got this thing. Bad in that, like, this page table is, like, over here. And when we are doing the copy in, we are are on a c r three, which is kind the base of the page tables, but that is going to be pointing into that that that the user address space. It's like it should it somehow is accessing this other page table.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:11] And the other kind of interesting data point that we had across this is like it definitely you needed a context switch to actually flicker.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:09:20] That's right. The oscillation between good and bad data required a context switch between them.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:27] That's right. You had to, like, go in and out of the kernel to see this. And you're like, okay. So then you you you begin to add all this up, and I become increasingly convinced that, like, this must be speculation. And we must be there's got to be something that we are doing where we and in particular, this must be so the, and it should be said that this address, and I'm gonna upload the doc that we sent ultimately to AMD, and that will go into to the details of, and I don't know that he even yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:13] There's actually a portion of the team say proprietary company. That's fine. But this was the doc that we submitted to them, and that this kind of describes now the entire problem. But the thing that we that is important to know is because of kernel page table isolation, you kind of mentioned this in passing, Adam, but this is really important. So KPI is invented had to be invented by us all at the tip of a bayonet due to meltdown.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:41] So meltdown, people remember Spectre and meltdown were the Angus horribles of 2018. So this was discovered in early twenty eighteen, January 1, I believe, 2018 is when that was kind of publicly disclosed. The and Spectre, these were both bad. Meltdown was terrible. So what meltdown allowed you to do is get the CPU to execute speculatively based on addresses that you weren't allowed to read, use a process.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:11:14] And you could then execute conditionally based on that speculation, and you could use that to actually begin to figure out what was in and then by using a timing attack, figure out what was in cash and what was not in cash. And that in turn allowed you by kind of changing the way you do this based on every bit, you can actually begin to, like, map cash lines that you can't read, which is very scary. And Yeah. In particular and it was meltdown was very, very bad because if there's no, like, worker like, the CPU's busted. The Intel CPUs, just flat out busted.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:11:54] And the only fortunately, they discovered that you could prevent this by having true kernel page table isolation. So in other words, it used to be that you would have a user application and the kernel would be in pointed to from the same c r three, and then there's a bit that would basically determine whether this is a user mapping or not. And as it turns out, that bit is like, okay. Well, no. Apparently, we're going to ignore that bit.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:20] So what we're gonna actually do is we're going to move you. We're going to have a user c r three that is for for for mappings only. For user mappings only, it can't see any kernel mappings. And then we had a kernel user c three. We have a kernel user C r three.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:37] That is a c r three that point that includes both kernel mappings and user mappings, because the kernel needs to be able to see user mappings to be able to copy into copy outs and so on. The thing that's wild is that the our stray mapping that we have, our stowaway mapping, is in fact not in either the user c r three or the kernel user c r three. It's actually in a different c r three that that we call in this document, the kernel only c r three. But this is a very, very small c r three. And this was basically done I mean, this is like kind of funny.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:17] We actually did this as kind of protection mechanism against we the kind of belt and suspenders against future possible kind of attacks that we wanted to switch you on to a kernel only c r three before we switch on to the kernel user c r three. And it becomes pretty clear that we are when we're in that that kernel that we are when we are in that kernel only c r three for that very brief period where we do have the stowaway mapping, the processor is executing speculatively. And in particular, it is loading a page translation to the stowaway mapping. And then when we later and then that is being loaded into the TLB. And this is where we get to, like, the difference of opinion, whether that should be allowed or But that gets loaded into the TLB.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:12] Then later when we were to do the Detroit's copy in, for example, that would hit in the TLB. And we would use the wrong mapping instead of the right mapping. And this would first, this explains the flickering because it depends on whether you have the wrong mapping in the TLB or not. And you have the wrong mapping in the TLB or not depending on if it happened to speculatively execute through when you were in the state where you had this kernel only c r three. So apologies if that explain that explanation is
[Adam Levinthal] [01:14:54] Oh, that's great.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:55] Well, you know, it's actually funny because at some point, Adam, you asked Keith to give a two-minute explanation for
[Adam Levinthal] [01:15:02] Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:02] How the RAM disk is loaded. And Keith gives an extraordinary two-minute explanation and then apologizes for how poor
[Adam Levinthal] [01:15:09] it is.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:09] It's like, I'm really sorry. That was like that was like a discombobulated mess. I'm like, that was just like a was scripted. But I and so my explanation is nowhere near as good, but the the the document goes into a lot of details there. I will say that this is, like, major déjà vu for me because now I'm like, wow.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:27] This is really reminding me of something way, way, way back in the day. So in the late nineties, I had a really pathological bug. I had one of these psychotic bugs. It's both, psychotic. It was non-reproducible.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:41] Got it to the point with enough reproducibility, I was able to determine what was going on. And what was going on was that the chip was not honouring a TLB shoot down. And in particular, the way we do a TLB shoot down in the operating system, which is to say like, okay, I should, I probably should, I probably should mention what the TLB is. Yeah. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:01] Sorry. The the the Exactly. Sorry about that. So the the the TLB is the translation look aside buffer. So when you have a virtual address, and you're going to turn it into a physical address, you need to do those page tables are going to be stored in memory.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:14] So you need to do multiple memory operations to get to determine what that physical address is. And you need to do that translation every time you have a memory operation. So it's really, really important that that translation is cached. And the TLB, which is a very old construct and dash surely dates, it's got to be like an IBM model 85 thing or model I don't know. I'm I should go look up the actual origins of TLB.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:42] But the translation looks aside buffer dates back to the earliest machines with virtual memory. Because if you don't, you have to cache this. Like, you can't have a TLB. So but the TLB, because it is a cache, you know, wherever that we have caching, we must have you immediately have coherence questions. And so you have to be sure that when you are taking down a mapping, that you're also making sure that that that you are taking down all the cached associations between the virtual address and the physical address.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:16] And we call that a TLB shoot down in a multiprocessor system. So we need to actually because this thing could be sat this translation could be in a bunch of different CPUs, and we need to be like, yo, you need to actually get rid of this mapping. You need to invalidate this mapping. And microprocessors have different ways, but on x a six, it's called the info page. And there's an instruction that you execute, and you execute that instruction with a with an address, and that would actually shoot, shoot the mapping down.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:46] And what I realized is that involved page, in some very rare circumstances, was not actually shooting down the translation. And in particular, if on the next instruction, it would actually still be in the TLB. I know, again, under rare conditions. And what I further realized was that this had to do with the fact that the mapping itself was still valid. And what was happening was the so because it actually, in the operating system, whether you the mapping is valid or not, shouldn't matter when you shoot it down until because I know I'm like, I'm not going to execute on any more CPUs.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:30] The mapping no one is going to be loading through this mapping, or they would die. So I whether the mapping is valid when I shoot it down or I shoot it down and then rip down the mapping shouldn't actually matter. But as it turns out, it really did matter. And when because if you did the shoot-down with the mapping still being valid, as it turns out, the microprocessor would speculatively execute, and it would speculatively execute it would speculatively load whatever was in EAX. And whatever is in EAX is actually the address you're trying to shoot down.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:59] So if you would literally do the info page instruction. That would shoot it out of the TLB, and then it would speculatively execute, and it would load through EAX and load it right back into the TLB.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:19:08] And that that load through EAX, that speculative load through, yeah, was sort of just for funnies. Just like, I don't know. I've got something that looks like a pointer. That's right. People love to referencing pointers.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:18] Let's give it a shot. Let's give it a shot. And this was one of these where in hindsight, I I I was being given a small bite of the apple of the tree of knowledge of good and evil because I'm like, wow. That is, like, really aggressive speculation. And this is in, like, 1999, maybe.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:39] And this is just because the kind of the dark side of speculation is that, like, speculative execution is really required to get around the memory wall for these microprocessors. And kind of like in
[Adam Levinthal] [01:19:49] a way wall being the disparity in speed between the
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:52] the memory. Yeah. Exactly. It's like the if you don't actually hit out a cache, like, we're just going to spend all of our time blocked on memory. And one of the way we got around the memory wall a couple different ways, but one of them was got very, very good at speculatively executing.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:07] And this is one these were like, oh my god. I don't think Spark is doing that. And of course, it's like, no. Spark's not doing that, pal. It's like, that's the problem.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:15] That's why Spark sucks.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:20:16] Have you noticed how slow Spark is? Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:18] A 100%. I got at one point, John Masters is like, I want to get a hold of some old Spark machines because I bet I can find a lot of spike in of execution.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:20:25] I was in there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:26] And I'm like, no, unfortunately. Good luck. Unfortunately, I don't think we were I wish. Maybe if we had speculated, we executed a little bit better to the microprocessor. We've been a little more a little more competitive.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:39] So we and like this And with Intel, I, like, I get this bug totally. Like, I present this to Intel. And Intel's like, well, you really shouldn't be doing the shoot-down with the mapping dial. And by the way, you're the only operating system that does it that way. And I was super sad because I'm like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:59] Well, I spent a lot of time debugging this and being like basically victim blame for it. And I'm like, okay, can we have, and then I'm like, alright, this is fine. Give me a note in the architecture manual. I just want like a paragraph. And then I had this plan.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:13] Do you remember the the shirts that we had made that Roger had with the paragraph on it from the Spark Architecture? No. No. Okay. So this is like super deep lore.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:22] And actually, this is this predates me. We need to get someone to get, so there was a slash proc bug that Roger could not find for years. And there was a footnote in the Spark architecture manual that basically explained why this data corruption issue that he was affected may have. Don't if this data corruption, but it was basically like a correctness issue. And a an engineer, I'm trying to remember the name of the engineer at SMCC who ultimately found this.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:46] But Roger was so elated to find this and to find that it was present in the architecture manual that I either he made or someone made for him shirts that had that footnote on them. And Roger Bing, yes, Roger Falconer, the late Roger Falconer, the inventor along with Ron Gomes of slash pro. And so I am like, this is, and I had one of those shirts. I and, this is one of these shirts that I'd probably, like, catch the kids wearing. Every once in a while, be like, you know, you're wearing like, sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:13] You're you're, you know, you're wearing like the shirt. The magnet card. That's right. No. Exactly.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:19] That's right. You just wrote someone's phone number on the back of the Magna Carta, by the way. The so the but I got that shit. I think I hope still somewhere. But the so I have the same idea.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:32] I'm like, I will. They will do the architecture note, and then, yes, I will accept the fact that, like, our operating system was, I guess, incorrect. I don't know why, but we will correct it, and then I will have this t shirt. At least I'll have the t shirt. And I'm like, so can we'm like, it seems reasonable to, like, clarify in the architecture manual that at the time that an info page happens, in order for that info page to be correct, there must be no valid translation in the page tables.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:59] Like, that feels like a very reasonable right? Does that seem reasonable? I mean, another way I'm saying it, And they're like, no. I'm not going to say that. Furthermore, I'm like, how about, like an email or something?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:13] Like a erratum or like a could you maybe send a clarifying bulletin? They're like, no. No. Don't think doing that. Like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:22] Alright. Well, this has been fun. So that was that I'm like, wow, this bug is really, really similar. And so how did we ultimately determine that speculation was involved? Fortunately, we do there are ways to disable and these are like super deep in the innards of the CPU.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:41] It's not something that they really expose, but you actually have MSRs that you can use to disable certain speculative features, which is actually really valuable. And the, and I really appreciate our a huge shout-out to our folks, to Will Forman, Paul Grimes, a bunch of other folks at AMD have been working really hard to get us the necessary documentation. So we actually had the ability. Like, we actually know what these bits mean. I'm like, we can go disable the and I first, I I I tried I think I tried to disable, like, all speculative loads.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:17] The or I did something it was like a big hammer. I think I did maybe I I I I That's what
[Adam Levinthal] [01:24:23] you said on that demo day video. You disabled all speculation.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:26] Yes. Very big hammer as it turns out. Like, machine slows to a crawl. They're like, oh, okay. So let's not okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:35] Never mind. Let's not do that. But if I so you have to have a little bit more fine tune, but fortunately, there's a way to disable you can disable speculative TLB loads and then reloads, and then you can disable so you can be in other words, the the the TLB being loaded speculatively, which interestingly, like, dramatically reduced it but didn't eliminate it, which is like, oh god. Okay. Interesting.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:06] But if you disable both that, and you can also do it on the instruction side. So if you actually that completely eliminated it. And you're like, oh, wow. Interesting. So it's like something is also interpreting it as on the side, on the instruction side.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:25:20] Speculating on the side.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:22] Right? Speculating on the side. Yeah. It's like, wow. This is amazing.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:25] And we did manage to reproduce this on we had this on this is on Milan, which is what development on the time. But we are also able to reproduce it on once we knew exactly what this is, like, okay, we can go reproduce this anywhere. We don't actually need to be on a Gimlet. We just need to create the stowaway mapping, and then we can actually see this. And so we were able to reproduce it on a Gimlet, and we were able to reproduce it on a Milan that is ethanol axon, like kind of their Stock system.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:52] Then we're also able to to to reproduce it on a Genoa, which is their newest CPU at the time. And our the first concern was this is potentially very bad because if you are speculating like, we are speculating across this protection boundary, like, is there any way for a user because one thing that's really important is that when we were copying out data, and when we were using copy in Trace, those two things, those copies are actually happening in the kernel. They're not actually happening at user land. So part of the reason we were observing this when it first came out off the wire is because it is the kernel that had copied it out to us. So if that user process attempted to load from that same VA, and this is why we saw the pattern we saw.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:26:45] If the user process would load from that same VA, it would what it would see would actually be the correct data. So the which is like why you're like, okay. The but if it it was the incorrect data was copied into it. The corrupted data was copied into it. So the're like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:08] Is there a way, and this is kind of our question AMD, Is there a way for a to be seen in Solent? And can you then if then our kind of assumption was no. But is there a way for this errant speculation to be abused in some way, to undermine KPI was our other kind of concern. AFC's answer, pretty similar to Intel's answer from from a generation and a half ago. It's basically like, nah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:44] It's fine. Nah. Nah. And then now I will say this about AMD. And I'm like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:50] So what about like a note in the because as it turns out, we are the all I mean, again, we get we're used to this, but we're apparently the only operating system that has because the issue is that we're going from a're going between two c r threes in the kernel. And it wouldn't this wouldn't be an issue if we only actually had the more conventional thing of so like, okay. So what about a clarifying note that if you do this, you should be aware that speculation can occur across us? And actually to AMD's credit, they're like, yeah, sure. Send us the paragraph.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:30] And I just haven't done that yet. I hope we should. I probably should have said so like AMD is much more accepted to the paragraph, and I really owe them the paragraph. So I think it's the other reason I've been reticent to do this as a podcast episode. Feel like
[Adam Levinthal] [01:28:41] I've got So instead, we're giving them this.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:44] We're giving them this. We're giving them the gift of a podcast episode. And, you know, I don't know. I guess this is just what makes me like an older and wiser engineer is that I'm no longer you know, I've grown out of printing errata on a t shirt and wearing it on my chest. Like, that's an it's a phase as it turns out.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:00] That's like a phase that you grow out of.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:29:02] So It's good to hear.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:03] Parents of kids who are printing out architecture manuals as t shirts, like, just be patient with the developing It will
[Adam Levinthal] [01:29:13] You know, the one of the things we were talking about the other day, Brian, is like, what if we had not hit this in Installinator?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:19] Oh, okay.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:29:19] Like, like, what if this you know, we had never used this virtual address range? Because there's no reason why we needed to have. Like, what would have happened? Like, what
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:31] would have all happened? Just gets very close to what if the confederacy wins the civil war, I feel. Mean, in terms of just like it's like, it's just not good. A 100% not good.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:29:42] Short answer, not good.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:29:44] Long answer, not good. Long answer, of much historical fiction. And, you know, you can, you know, The Man in the High Castle, but for data corruption. If the it's yeah. I mean, it's its hard to know where we would have seen this.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:01] Yeah. I mean, we would have seen it. It feels like I mean, the thing that I find chilling is that we would have seen it in a way that we wouldn't even know how to bifurcate it. You know what I mean? It's like we could have seen it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:16] And it's also, like, corrupted. I don't know. I and then, oh, here's another question. Like, had we seen it before?
[Adam Levinthal] [01:30:23] And because I think there were, like, some tough to understand issues with cockroach. And I know we've talked about cockroach debugging a couple of times. Yeah. But, you know, not impossible that that thing had a big heap that could have wandered into this into the haunted VA range.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:44] Yeah. I mean, the good news is that you do have you can eliminate this very quickly. That is like, if you don't have this VA mapped, not this problem. Because if, like, if you don't have the VA mapped, it means that you were in the business of just, fishing in addresses that you didn't have mapped. And it's like, what do you have?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:31:04] Six eight v hand? Mean, they just That's like kind of what you do for it. Is this is like we are this what you do for kicks? Like, if you like, you know, don't want to kink shame a process, but like, if this is kind of what you do for kicks, like that's but so you have to have this thing mapped realistically for this to be and now that said, I mean, you can unfortunately, the corruption happens at such a distance. It's like if you had it mapped in the mean, it's like, yeah, it gets ugly.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:31:30] Yeah. Gets ugly. Good that we caught it. Yeah. So I feel like, I mean, a bunch of lessons.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:31:36] I do feel like the one of the most important ones to me is, John, the very important half measure that you took. And because the other thing that you did that I thought was perfect that I I I can struggle to do is you did that pretty quickly. Do you know what I mean? Like, you didn't like, well, let's like to analyze this for six months. It's like, no.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:00] No. Let's just like, this is scary enough that we just need to because that was pretty quick as I recall.
[John Gallagher] [01:32:06] Yeah. Well, I mean, sort of like necessity is the mother invention kind of thing. Mentioned I was going on vacation, right? I actually merged that like Saturday morning before our flight, right? It was like, I'm going out of town.
[John Gallagher] [01:32:19] Like I screwed something up in writing the OS image. Let me at least put some stuff in here to save everybody else the time of like, it's corrupt, and you don't find out until after. Sort of like Rain said, right? Like it's much better to get an error during Installinator than to find out like a slid won't boot after. I'm like, I'm just going to save everybody sometime and fail this thing so at least they can like to know to retry it faster.
[John Gallagher] [01:32:40] So it I if I hadn't been going out of town, would I have still done that? I don't know. Right? That was two years ago.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:45] But Right.
[John Gallagher] [01:32:46] Lucky break.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:47] Well, it was a lucky break. It was a very lucky break. And then I think as we began and then I, so I think that to me is is is a big lesson. I think another big lesson, I think we saw this a lot, it's like this really benefited from the paralysation, and lots and lots of people contributed to the debugging of this. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:09] And, you know, and sometimes it's like, I just was listening to the recording. Like, you know, I really appreciate it. Like, Niels is trying to reproduce this on a non oxide system as, like, our reproducer. Like, non oxide being, like, x 86 running Helios, but not a and that's a really valuable endeavour. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:25] And even though it didn't and because it's like, if that yields something, it's really important. Other people are like, I reproduce this in a different VA range? Because that's, that's really important if we can do that. So I think that the the the parallelization you get with debugging, it's kind of surprising to me that debugging is so analyzable, but it is really is. Especially when you have an existential bug.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:48] It's always you know, that's
[Adam Levinthal] [01:33:50] Yeah. No. But you're right. That, the way that we debug with the way we do these group debug sessions is very different. Not something we did before the pandemic.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:33:59] Not something I hadn't done before the pandemic. Maybe you did at Joanna. But I don't know. It's a great way
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:05] to do it. It's a great way to do it. I mean, I think it happened a little bit via chat and less over Meet, but if it's great. Yeah. I think it's I also love that you get, just watching the recordings of this.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:18] And, you know, because I think another lesson from this is I really appreciated the recordings. It was great to be able to kind of, walk through all this. Oh, someone's asking like, where did we land on this? What was the solution? So sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:27] And I did kind of gloss over it. The solution is there was a bug in the operating system, and I realized, unfortunately, it got moved from Omicron to Saint Louis, which meant that because there's that we end that that is not publicly available, but I'll get this bug publicly out there, so people can look at it. We'll get it in the show notes. There was a bug in the operating system that kept this errant mapping. The mapping should have been flushed completely.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:49] So that mapping should not have that that was a stowaway mapping should not have existed. So the fact that there was a stowaway mapping, that is actually the bug. And so c r three, the the kernel only c r three really should be very empty. And it shouldn't actually be a problem that the chip can speculate across this. So that is the actual problem.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35:14] And then with this kind of, like, note of, like, if you have something in your kernel only c r three, and you've got another c r three that is also kernel accessible, you can actually get speculation across these two. So if you have a mapping in the former that's not in the latter, You should be aware that you can load translations, which again is now a nonissue for us because that was a grave issue for us. So that's the that's the actual proper fix. And then, John, I think we got rid of the balloon. I I I trust.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35:46] Yeah.
[John Gallagher] [01:35:46] Yeah. It lasted forty-eight hours.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35:48] Right. Yeah. Right.
[Rain Pahari] [01:35:49] For me, I think, you know, it was really nice to be able to rule a lot of things out because again, like, you know, coming in, it's like, oh, all of a sudden you're seeing this corrupt data. Like it could be so many things, right? But being able to use Trace and like, you know, Instrument Tokyo and just being able to narrow it down to that like little section where we've eliminated almost all of our user land stack. We are like literally receiving bytes from the buffer. I think the other bit that was, I think is really helpful just kind of looking back at the issue was, I mean, this does use some unsafe code.
[Rain Pahari] [01:36:26] This has, it uses initialized buffers and so on. So we did try to add a little bit of like, can we like force the buffer to be initialized and like, that didn't help. But it was really nice that because this is Rust and like, I think if this were in C, I feel like it would be so much harder to actually track what's going on, at least for me.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:47] Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
[Rain Pahari] [01:36:49] And I think, you know, Rust is kind of really narrows down the scope of unsafe code in that sense, which is really satisfying.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:56] Yeah. That's a very good point, Rain, that I think that just in general, the the the more robust one's foundation is, the like, there we don't expect odd behaviour. So when we do have odd behaviour, it's kind of like we need to stop everything and really understand this. And I feel like, you know, we've had a bunch of these. You can, Adam, ring the chime as you see fit or not.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:19] Like, for the debugging odyssey episode, which is another one where and, know, I feel we've done enough of these that we don't have really second thoughts about it. But if one did have any second thoughts about it, you're like, oh god. No. These are we've so often, you get this thing that has and this was like, this was very clearly of serious consequence. So, like, there would be no even internal debate about whether this is the right thing.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:47] But sometimes you get something where it's like, well, no. This isn't feel to be of serious consequence. Like, in Dave's case, it's like, we are actually, you know yes. You know, I when I run this, I'm going to get into random psych faults. We're not actually seeing it in production.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:59] Turns out it was random data corruption that could have bitten us at any time. And I think it is the but, Rain, to your point, when your foundation is kind of sandy and then well, it's kinda like this thing kinda dies for a bunch of different reasons. And I don't know. If we stopped and debugged all the data corruption, we wouldn't do anything else. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:38:24] And it just limits the scope of what you're looking at, and you've got just so, I think that was also really, really I important to
[Rain Pahari] [01:38:31] think there's only a certain amount of budget that, you know, folks have, like just a certain amount of patience folks have for like debugging these issues, right? And, you know, I feel like in many other environments that budget gets eaten up by And I've been in roles where like, yeah, you know, yeah, you know, we'll, just restart it, whatever. Yeah, corruption happens. But no, does not just randomly happen. It's worth getting to the bottom of it.
[Rain Pahari] [01:38:59] And like, yeah, I mean, ever since we fixed this issue, I don't think we've really seen any instances of corruption. Right? Certainly not in insolvent, but in general, like, I don't think we've seen that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:39:10] No. Of course, I hope you're frantically knocking on wood because you're Yeah. You're just like actually summoning a tsunami of corruption. But No. The the the that's exactly right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:39:20] And I think it is just the and the more solid your foundation, the more you know that this investment is something that's that's important. And so it's its going to pay off. So I think it's like when the and this is why, like, I mean, this is where you have this kind of, like, exploding tech debt where, well, everything is, like, broken. So now we've got a lot of this kind of mysterious behaviours, and we can't stop and investigate them. It's like, okay, what if we built it the right way from the beginning?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:39:49] And we which is why it's really important to build it the right way from the beginning. And this yeah. It was and then the conclusion from AMD is and obviously, is something we're talking about. This is not a security issue. So which is great.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:40:04] And as someone's saying in the chat, like, could you because these things both use ACID zero to and if we use a different ACID, yes, we could. The the the presumption is I can't remember if we actually test it or not, but the presumption is that this would not speculate across that. The fact that these are ACID zero on both of these. So but, yeah, this is a fun one. This is and I love the kind of, like, the spec if it hadn't been for meltdown ironically, we wouldn't have had this to be like, you because if we can the stowaway mapping would have been in, like we would have hit that earlier.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:40:46] The stowaway mapping was able to stowaway because it was in the kernel c r three. The kernel only c r three. So this needed a bunch of things to kinda come together. Yeah. And the net effect was well, terrifying.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:40:58] Yeah. Well, Brian, I'm so glad we did this one. I had a great time watching most of the video of it. I found it like a slowest paced episode of house I've ever watched, but still, still gripping.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:10] Yeah. I would so the video is funny also. Thought yeah. It was very funny to watch the video. There were a couple of times because we would all just be on there in silence wondering what the fuck is going on.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:20] I'd be like, did I pause this thing accidentally? Oh, I go, nope. Nope. There we are. We're all just like staring at our screens.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:25] Staring into the middle distance. Yeah. It's pretty little distance. And then also you also feel like you begin to, you know, obviously, you know all these things because you have to deal with me, but me only dealing with me in the kind of, like, my past me, there are some things that are, like, very annoying. Like, there were a couple of times I'm like, you know what?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:41] Silence. I'm like, wait. Wait. Who would say something like that? What do we get?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:45] What? Like, just say it is after, like, something to be honest, we're like, I don't know what. I mean, obviously, like, do you want us? Like, this is a bit. Like, are we supposed to it's like a call and response.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:41:53] How big was it? Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:55] I don't know. It's like, could you mute yourself if you just wanna talk to yourself, please? But it was great to get in the, you know, I great, terrific work all around really did require a bunch of folks to work together on. And a reminder of like, man, these systems are they really do fabricate a kind of reality. These things that are bedrock, you know, ultimately, they are all artificial at some level.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:27] So it was fun. Hopefully, this met your expectations, Adam.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:42:32] Absolutely. Glad only two years in coming, but it was awesome.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:36] Only two years in coming. Oh, that is great. And I don't I, and now we are left with Morris Chang and Sarawak Williams as the
[Adam Levinthal] [01:42:44] That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:44] Next up. Next up. I was really, I was the think, you know, it's not the reason I was delaying on this one. It's like I still well, I wanted to, you know, buy myself a little more time before I can get Morris Chang on here. But Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:55] Alrighty. Well, thank you everyone. Thank you especially thank you, John and Rain for both your hard work on this problem, and thanks for joining us again. Reminiscing. It was fun, and thanks.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:04] And in absentia, did a lot of work on this, and obviously Keith and Adam Ewer. I thought it was funny because I did think that you underestimated how much going back and rewatch that, I hope you appreciated that like No.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:43:15] I did. I was actually
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:16] right in there slinging. Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:43:17] Yeah. I'm showing up to work almost every day. Yeah. No.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:19] For sure. Almost every day. Exactly. Yeah. And I assure you we're not about to go debug a company ending data corruption problem at the end of this podcast.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:27] Just like not as far as you know. I guess you have to stay tuned in two years to know
[Adam Levinthal] [01:43:30] if we are or not. That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:33] Awesome. Thanks everyone. Talk to you next time.