[Bryan Can trill] [00:00] How is my audio?
[Steve Flank] [00:02] Working.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:04] That doesn't
[Adam Levinthal] [00:05] Like a domestic dream. I was so excited. I've been
[Bryan Can trill] [00:09] I just haven't been gone for so long, and now I'm, like, I'm back where like, in the land of carpet as opposed to the land of reverb. And I was just really excited to show off, like, my great audio. And I don't know, Steve. It's just like
[Adam Levinthal] [00:23] It worked.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:24] It's not what I was going for.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:25] It started weak, but it's its getting better with every word.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:28] Stop. It's like your audio is unmuted. That's alright. Audible. What else do you I'll write it down the name.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:38] What else do you want? This is, like, lowest possible praise. It's I do I should sound a lot better than two weeks ago. One hope.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:44] Sounds great. You do. If it was really just that first word that had both me and Steve pausing, I think.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:51] Alright. No. I don't know if I'm being gaslit or not about No.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:53] This time now. This
[Bryan Can trill] [00:54] time now.
[Steve Flank] [00:55] This time now.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:57] Next time, yes. How are
[Steve Flank] [00:59] you all?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00] That's it. It's good to be good to be back. Good to
[Adam Levinthal] [01:02] be back. Good Welcome back.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04] Yeah. Back to the litter box.
[Steve Flank] [01:05] Like, been around for the podcast, so it's also nice to be here. Sometimes on Mondays, I've gotten a little busy at this time slot. So
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12] yeah. Well, well, welcome back to our a regular. Alright. So we well, actually, now do I want to kick off with the topic already? I feel like this I don't wanna rush into our topic.
[Steve Flank] [01:25] It's like we We we promised a good could open that was, like, you know, like, the worst cold open that's ever cold opened and then getting right into it at one minute after the hour is, like, that's
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35] Well, I feel that very on
[Steve Flank] [01:37] hallucination, Brian, Nick.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:40] Very on brand. Adam and I were at an Oakland Bowlers game over the weekend. That's right. And I feel Adam, correct me if I'm wrong because we were sitting in a different spot. I feel that that your progeny was very close to being the fan of the game.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:55] Am I right about that? I feel like they were for a fan of the game in your section, and I'm like, this this this can't end well, I feel.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:04] Yeah. Yeah. They were right there next to us. I brought my little league team in, and one of the kids suddenly was on the field with his little brother, not my kid, but another one. And then they got to run the bases afterwards.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:15] So for fans of the podcast and the baseball episode, go to the Oakland Ballers with their kids, I guess.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:22] Yeah. You can actually run all the bases. Unlike you see that, John Fisher and the's were stopping at third base in Sacramento.
[Steve Flank] [02:29] It just
[Bryan Can trill] [02:29] feels like they literally can't even run the bases properly. Know? It's amazing.
[Steve Flank] [02:35] If the team is doing bad, do you say that they're bombing, or is that like a bad joke?
[Bryan Can trill] [02:40] Well, they are the ballers, not the bombers.
[Steve Flank] [02:42] Oh, ballers, not the bombers. I just couldn't maybe your audio is not that good. I take it back. No.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:46] Was joking.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:47] You're you're you're bringing my audio for that? I just feel like we have an entire podcast episode about the ballers.
[Steve Flank] [02:51] I mean, my
[Adam Levinthal] [02:52] I Steve says it's his favourite.
[Steve Flank] [02:55] I'm doing meta art about how the fact that humans can misunderstand a text doesn't mean that they're useless just like Oh, I'm
[Bryan Can trill] [03:02] just very meta.
[Steve Flank] [03:03] Bring it right back into the topic, actually.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:06] You going to be hallucinating a lot of this episode? Is that can I just know in advance? Am I going to have to, like, ask you for
[Steve Flank] [03:12] Yeah. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:13] Could you give me 10 more names of the baseball team that you think you could be? Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [03:19] Three plus five is 12.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:21] There we go. There you go. On a
[Steve Flank] [03:23] know, split Stick to r's in strawberry.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:26] Exactly. Okay. We're good we're good to go. Alright. Well, we that is as good a segue as we're going to get.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:32] So, Steve, we are talking about this blog entry that you wrote last week. Yeah. That was a bit of a hot tamale. I I I somewhat I was a little bit surprised. You know, I went back and read or read listened to our pragmatic LM usage with Nicholas Carlin, which okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:51] Adam, when do you think that was without looking? Can you you do you know when that was?
[Adam Levinthal] [03:55] I'd say almost a year ago to the day.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:58] It is actually very it is good. So it's like ten months ago. So, yeah, very good. You got a good intuition for. I felt it was, like, much more recent than that, but it's not.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:07] It was a while ago. But it was interesting to go, like, relisted. So I feel like we have been pretty modern on this issue for a while. So, Steve, I thought your blog entry was very neutral. No.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:19] I mean, neutral is the wrong word. The dreaded neutral zone. Measured. Measured.
[Steve Flank] [04:23] Yeah. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:24] Even of even temperament. Yeah. It's great
[Steve Flank] [04:28] because I wrote it mostly because I'm being driven insane lately, and I felt like I needed to just, like, vomit some words out about it. So that's perfect because, I mean, obviously, I don't think I think there are some meta issues around its reception and everything else, but I appreciate that you all both thought it was reasonable.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:45] Okay. So what so the exactly. Audio audible. Audio audible. Blog entry.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:53] Lots of words.
[Adam Levinthal] [04:54] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:54] Lots of words. Okay. So the title is I am disappointed in the AI discourse. So what do you want to describe a bit? What prompted you to write this?
[Bryan Can trill] [05:03] What prompted this disappointment?
[Steve Flank] [05:05] So basically, like, I have historically most I don't even know if I should necessarily say this exactly, but let's put this Many people that I know and respect are pretty vocally anti AI, and I found the things they said to be relatively reasonable. And when ChatGPT came out, I definitely didn't say, do you know who Steve Flank is? I typed real questions in there that you know? And it gave me answers that I thought were fine but also clearly made hilarious mistakes sometimes. And I kind of went, this is a fun party trick, but I'm not totally sure about a lot of things about this.
[Steve Flank] [05:38] And so I kind of just sort of put it away. But an interesting thing, and I sort of talked about some of this publicly but not all of it, is I told my mom's boyfriend about this. And he works or did work. He actually retired this year, but he, like, worked for doing, like, a tar plant, like, industry stuff. And part of his job is, like, sending reports about how the plant does to, like, other things.
[Steve Flank] [06:01] And so he was really curious, like, what does this thing know about, like, tar production and, like, sand and physical things I don't understand because I'm a computer programmer. And so, like, there's been like in two years or whatever that's been since that happened, there's been this really weird kind of thing where he has had very many measured and reasonable takes about it. Because I'd ask him, my program friends are all like, oh, it hallucinates and therefore it's useless. And I'd be like, what do you think about the fact that it's not accurate? And he'd be like, well, here's the deal.
[Steve Flank] [06:34] It's like, that's my job. He's like, I love editing text and I hate writing it. And so if is I need to do a report, I find it's faster to like to ask it what to do. And it's like 75% right and 25% wrong, but it's my job to fix that 25%. And I can do the editing of the text faster than I can do the like writing on its own because it's not as painful to me.
[Steve Flank] [06:52] And so just like, you know, it's its chill. Like, whatever. Like, computers are always making mistakes and, like, that's fine. Like, tools don't you know, they're not a problem. And so
[Bryan Can trill] [07:00] Like, to be clear, you'd had this conversation with him two years ago, and he started using ChatGPT after how after this conversation. You inspired me.
[Steve Flank] [07:06] Using it. Yeah. Basically, I was like, I told my mom, like, by the way, this computer thing come out, and, like, you know, I totally didn't ask it if it does about me, and it totally did or did not. I'm just being silly because I'm sometimes, like, I feel weird about the fact that I'm, like, a public figure in some ways. And so
[Bryan Can trill] [07:21] Is this just really a wrong way for us to acknowledge your blue sky blue check? Is this what Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [07:26] It's really it's really about the blue check. Definitely.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:29] I know, I just told you we were like Adam, this is I said. We're not just going to get past it. We have to just hit it at the right at the top. Then we'll be done with it.
[Adam Levinthal] [07:35] Just get it out of our systems.
[Steve Flank] [07:36] Get it our rewatching 30 rock recently, and there's a scene where Jerry Seinfeld says to Alec Baldwin, like, oh, I was in Europe vacationing in the country that only rich people know about. And, like, that's kind of like the way I feel about the blue check thing. It's like, oh, yeah. I mean, know, I have it, but I can't tell you about, you know, our parties and the checks they sell me and send me and all those other things. So anyway, like, yeah, I he had started using it immediately because he was just really enthralled with like, I can ask this thing anything, and it spits something out that's sensible.
[Steve Flank] [08:07] And he was curious, like, what does it this is a thing made by computer people. What does it know about my industry and the stuff that I know and things like that? And he continued to use it and found it interesting. And so I had this weird optimism from a non-programmer person and then all of this anti stuff from programmer people. And that's fine, but it's weird that the programmer people are like, I don't know.
[Steve Flank] [08:31] Just like it started to it started to, like, mess with my head a little teeny bit. But then, like, as time went on, it was sort of like, I decided at one point that, you know, if I'm going to be a hater, I like to be an informed hater. And so Oh, there you go.
[Bryan Can trill] [08:45] Oh, yeah. This is the yeah. This is the most earnest interest. Comes from, like, I need to hate this thing better.
[Steve Flank] [08:50] Yeah. And, like, I knew I had tried this thing two years ago, and people are always saying stuff gets better. And, like, you know, sometimes people are right and someone too are wrong. But I was
[Bryan Can trill] [08:58] like, I haven't checked
[Steve Flank] [08:58] in on this a while. I should, like, you know, see what's up. And then, like, I was like, oh, so I had specifically for reasons that involve JJ. There you go, Adam. Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [09:10] Because of JJ, for JJ's four eleven writing, I really
[Steve Flank] [09:13] wanted to
[Bryan Can trill] [09:13] Are we going to get the chime or are going to get the
[Steve Flank] [09:16] It's minutes until the JJ.
[Bryan Can trill] [09:18] It's like It's a bit a Chilton. Is that sound? Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [09:21] A really nice a really nice thing about JJ is the colouring in the console, and I think it matters and is important and is good. And in my tutorial, it's all black and white because there's no highlighting for JJ. So I got this idea that like in the second version of my tutorial that I'm working on, I would like to transpire the codes from the terminal whose name I'm totally forgetting right now, which is embarrassing. ANSI escape codes, like to CSS. And then I would like to have colouring in my terminal and that'd be cool.
[Steve Flank] [09:48] And so I went on this little side project. And you know what's like not very fun? Writing an ANSI escape codes to CSS compiler. And I see all these people talking about how good, you know, code is at it. And so I decided, like, you know what the heck?
[Steve Flank] [10:00] I'll just throw it at ChatGPT. And so I was like, I'm going to be extra lazy about it. I'm not even gonna, like, describe the problem. I'm just going to be like, hey. Furthermore, I'm trying to turn ANSI codes into CSS.
[Steve Flank] [10:08] What'd got for me? I was like, oh, cool. And started, like, reproducing the ANSI table correctly. And I was like, oh, woah. This is kinda neat.
[Steve Flank] [10:14] But it, like, also didn't do, like, a fantastic job. But it was, like, doing a good enough job that I thought it was kinda cool. And so I was just, like, messing with it because I was like, this is actually better than I expected already. And, like, it's missing important cases. It's not really doing anything right, but, like, that's fine.
[Steve Flank] [10:27] And so I started using it for a couple other things. And then and that was never like actually finished because this is sort of like a side side side project at this point. So I don't have a ton of time to work on this stuff. But eventually, was like, you know, I'm really curious. They say these new models are way better and like than the one I'm using for free.
[Steve Flank] [10:45] And so, like, I can cough them up $20 once just, like, play with this for a little while. So I asked to do the same problem, and it gave me, like, a completely different algorithm for doing the thing. Like, the free versions model was giving me, like, go through every single byte in, a four loop with equals and match statements. And the newer model was giving me, like, regex search and replace, which I know you cannot parse the regexes and all that stuff, and so I hate to even bring it up. But, like, it was just it was so interesting to me that it gave the two models gave me completely different outputs, which is the thing that should not be surprising.
[Steve Flank] [11:19] But like, you know, when you just don't ever use a thing, you're just like, oh, I guess that makes sense, but I just literally never thought about it before because I never really considered these things. And so I continue to just kinda play with stuff. And so then the stuff has been heating up as it gets more and more serious because I do think it's getting more and more serious, and that's a whole part of this discussion. But the thing that kind of broke me a little bit, and this is one area where I think I did sort of a poor job in writing, and we were talking in the channel before the podcast started about this in some ways, is a big criticism I got was I was not engaging with outcomes of the circumstance because I like people felt like when I was talking about so I thought that the deep learning thing was kind interesting. And frankly, I like to ask chatty pity sometimes about just random stuff to see what it gives me.
[Steve Flank] [12:09] And so I typed I don't remember what it was, tell me about this thing and do deep deep research on it because I think it's kinda interesting. And so it's searching the web. Here's the six web pages I'm looking at. And I was like, all right, cool. And I tabooed a blue sky, and I see someone who I really technically respect reposting this person who apparently is a sci-fi author who was like, LLMs cannot search the web.
[Steve Flank] [12:30] They don't do that. They can't do that. Stop saying they can do that. It's fake. They just make stuff up.
[Steve Flank] [12:34] And this is the point that, like, this sort of, like, broke me, and what I was trying to get by talking about this post is, like, everyone's arguing whether they're not a search engine or not. And, like, that's fine, I guess. But, like, my point was not to say, like, this person is wrong and stupid. The point is that, like, I have one tab where Chatty petty is searching the web for whatever definition of that that is, and you can argue about the details, and that's fine or whatever. But just like versus someone who says like, no, it doesn't.
[Steve Flank] [12:55] And I'm like, do I exist in a shared reality with other people? And I say that in kind of joking way, but also sort of realistically where, I don't know, just like I think it's also sort of plays us in a lot of this is that like, it's its sort of weird and tough times, and people are feeling stressed about just like life and everything. But shared reality is like a complicated question at this point in some ways. And so I just kinda was like, okay. I need to talk about this and get something out of me because I feel like I'm seeing people that are super pro this technology make arguments I find ridiculous, but also people that are very anti really ridiculous.
[Steve Flank] [13:32] And I'm not normally a like, in the middle kind of person. I don't know if you're both familiar with me or not, but, like, I'm generally very allergic
[Bryan Can trill] [13:38] to that. No. No. This is fun. Like, I'm going to alienate absolutely, positively everyone.
[Bryan Can trill] [13:43] It's just the Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [13:45] And so, you know, what better way to, you know, deal with your lack of shared reality than to have a ton of people yell at you on the Internet about it. And so that was kinda like why I wrote the post was sort of just like, I know I need to, like, sort of work through these things in some capacity, and, like, a writing helps you your thinking tremendously, and it helps my thinking tremendously. And so my intention was kinda like, I want to set the stage, and I want to say that, like, I am I intend to, like, go through this whole thing because I think one thing that makes it really hard to talk about is there's, like, a million different ways to talk about this topic, and so there's no way you can fit that all in one blog post. And so I just like and like, alright. I'm going to say that I intend to start this discussion, and I'm going to keep it meta, and I'm going to keep it like, you know, I'm not trying to, like, say anyone's right or wrong.
[Steve Flank] [14:33] I'm just like, I wanna work through this, and I feel a little crazy. And, like, I wish that I feel like I was like, I feel like I can't even talk about it because people get so upset, And then everyone just got mad at me. So that's like fine. Many people did not get mad at me too, but that was sort of the broader aspects of it is just like and so I kinda feel like I didn't I wish I'd written a better post. I'm not entirely sure that I like my post a ton, but it at least got the thing rolling.
[Steve Flank] [15:00] And, you know, now I kinda, like, have to do more of this work, and that's what I wanted to do anyway. So it's kinda cool in that respect. But, you know? So, anyway, I guess that's, like, the broad stage. Like, that's the broad setting in which the post happened and sort of, like, the kind of, like, backstory, basically.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:18] Yeah. I think it's always hard because you never know the the mean, you necessarily like, the discussion that you get are always the people that are kinda motivated to have that discussion. And you never kind of like, there can often be a big because I mean, to me, like, your post represents pretty mainstream thinking. I don't think it's that controversial. And I get that for there are people for whom that is very, very controversial.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:44] I do think and Janet's making this point in the chat. I think that if there's a role. I would encourage all potential haters to do as Steve has done and use the thing enough to know exactly what you're hating and why Because it would I do think that it would think Pete, some people are there are arguments out there. And Steve, after you kinda said this, went into you know, you've mentioned that you've broken lobsters, which mean, did they give you t shirt for that? I mean, I'm not sure what the but with the sheer number of comments on lobsters.
[Bryan Can trill] [16:18] So I did go into that lobster thread. I'm like, wow. This is this Steve was not exaggerating. I got a lot of comments here. And I do think that you behooves people to actually dig into this stuff because I saw you know, do you read Josh Marshall at all Talking Points memo, Adam or Steve?
[Bryan Can trill] [16:37] Do you guys read No. Okay. Josh Marshall about it, but I don't read it. I see. I like, and I like Josh Marshall, the and the, you know, an interesting kind of pundit.
[Bryan Can trill] [16:46] And he had this post today being like, I have I am writing a piece on AI, and I and I have never used it. So I used it this morning, and it started hallucinating on these two things or whatever. And it's like, okay. You're writing a piece on AI, and you've not used it at all? Like, you mean, are you like, maybe you like, why don't you write the piece next week?
[Bryan Can trill] [17:04] Why don't you use it this week and then write the piece next week when you've got just a little more underneath you? Because I really do think and, Steve, I don't think I quite realized how I mean, maybe this is just naive on my part about how polarized some of this stuff was. And I would really caution people about that. There is a bit of a vilification of people that are using this stuff. And I would really caution people off of that position because I there's a day but if you're not using the stuff yourself, and you're being like, you know, anyone who's using this is I mean, like, one of things I saw that I am still grappling with are the people who are concerned that it is not ethical to use an LLM.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:53] And, man, that is I I I don't think that's a good position, I have to say. I think that, like if you wanted the, and I'm sure like the internet is just like bursting into flames right now over this. But I I I think you've you've got to be really explicit about that position because that's the same kind of position that says like, I think it's unethical for you to drive to work. And, like, that's not it. Like, I guess I can construct a framework whereby that is the case?
[Bryan Can trill] [18:21] But you're also saying it's unethical to drive your mom to the hospital. Well it's worth taking apart the ethical concerns.
[Adam Levinthal] [18:28] Right? Because I think that they are broadly, and correct me if I'm wrong, copyright and environmental, and then maybe also, like, some big tech. Are there other kind of categories of that ethical concern?
[Bryan Can trill] [18:41] Yeah. I Steve, we look to you.
[Steve Flank] [18:43] I'm sorry to be I mean, those are those are two definite two of the definite large ones. There's also, like, deep fakes are a big concern and just general, like, what I would call, like, Internet of shit concerns of, like, what happens if we start the dismissive version of this that's funny, and I'm not trying to dismiss it as, like, what if someone put a lie on the Internet? You know? But, like, if there's a difference between quality and quantity, and, like, quantity is quality all its own. Right?
[Steve Flank] [19:11] So if there's, like, more lies on the Internet, then, like, how you know what what's up with that? There's also concerns as to who is the people that gets the profit off of this.
[Adam Levinthal] [19:21] Right.
[Steve Flank] [19:22] I would say those are at least and also the guess the last one that's maybe a little separate is the like, job loss that ensues from these things existing. Yeah. Oh, oh, so big one as well. So those are, I would say, like, five or six, like, top ethical concerns.
[Adam Levinthal] [19:37] And so I would just separate the ones I had cited as, like, ethical concerns about using it versus ethical concerns about the broader implications for humanity. That is to say
[Steve Flank] [19:47] Yeah. There's, like, production concerns. There's consumption concerns, and there's, like, utility and or, like, a societal effect concerns.
[Adam Levinthal] [19:55] That that's right. And I guess implicitly by using it, you may be might feel like you're endorsing some of these other effects, other uses that you're not engaged with, but encourage perhaps other people to. So I would just say, Brian, I I I kind of disagree with the sentiment that, like, you just gotta get over it or whatever. Like, I in that, I think that there may be valid, like, valid concerns that people have about, say, how these are trained and how they're used and what biases are implied by them. But I also agree with your point emphatically that you have to go experience it to some degree yourself to evaluate those ethical concerns.
[Bryan Can trill] [20:34] Well, and I think you you you're going to need to separate that out. Right? I mean, you can say that, like, I think that we have a society that is too based on the internal combustion engine and still acknowledge that driving your mom to the hospital is actually an acceptable thing to do. Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [20:48] And Also, like oh, go ahead. Brian, you should finish what you're
[Bryan Can trill] [20:53] No. No. I and I think it's its it's actually I think it's very important to like, there's a lot of complexity and ambiguity here, and we're going to have to tease these things apart. Because when you get into this kind of like, I think this overly reductive stance of, you know, I am kind of playing forward the arbitrary implications of this, and therefore I think any engagement with it is accelerating us towards this path that I kind of have in my mind. I just think you're bringing yourself into lots and lots of un one is bringing oneself into lots and lots of unnecessary conflict and conflict that's going to be very confusing for both parties.
[Steve Flank] [21:29] Yeah. I think I'm sort of in a place and again, like, I am also a little under read on many of these, or I'm still, again, working through my thoughts on the ethics of all this stuff overall. But, like, I guess there's sort of a related thing that I see happening, which is, like, part of my concern about the ethical discussion is that it seems like some people think that if we just say that the ethics are bad hard enough, the genie will go back and rebuttal. Yeah. And, like, my take is like, okay.
[Steve Flank] [22:01] That's never going to happen. So if we agree that there are problematic ethics, we need to, like, understand what is actually happening. And the sort of, like, don't investigate the thing because it legitimizes it is, like, not allowing us to prepare to properly have the fights that are going to need to be had about the ethics of how it gets deployed in society. So as a specific example of some of this, there's a big sort of argument about, like, is this any different from any other form of automation? And so, like, there are some people who sort of believe that, like, AI in terms of automation is, like, sort of special unique instance of this happening.
[Steve Flank] [22:50] And there's other people who are like, and I think I'm more on this side, at least currently, like, automation has always been taking people's jobs and making productivity gains go to the people who own companies and not the like the workers of those companies and like stuff like that. And like trying to make it special is actually making it more difficult to have the concrete discussions that are needed to like, try to right those sorts of wrongs. And so it, like, becomes a struggle even when you're sort of, like, on a similar is side. You can end up arguing about stuff that's, like, not even really, like yeah. Like, I don't I don't know.
[Steve Flank] [23:27] There's just, like, one specific kind of, like, angle that I'm, like, particularly interested in. I said something a couple of weeks ago that's sort of, like a thing that I break with a lot of people who I consider to be on my own side on this sort of issues more broadly is like, I don't know, the idea as a programmer is being upset that they're going to be automated out of a job is like kind of massively hypocritical to me. Because like, what do you think our industry has been doing since the inception of our
[Adam Levinthal] [23:52] industry?
[Steve Flank] [23:52] Oh, 100%. Do you think all those secretaries are, like, upset that we're worried that, like, our jobs are going to go away? Like, you know, I Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [24:01] I mean, you go look at the census from
[Steve Flank] [24:04] But
[Bryan Can trill] [24:05] you know, 1890, '19 hundred, '19 '10, '19 '20. I mean, it's kind of mesmerizing to look at the census from those years, censuses, in terms of how people actually employed.
[Steve Flank] [24:16] It is important, though. Like I said earlier, quality quantity is a quality all its own. And so, like, the idea that, you know, every job is going to be automated out into existence may be something that is significantly different, but it's just like, those are the conversations I want to have with those kinds of like nuance and like investigating the angles on the problem. And it becomes very difficult when people are like, don't even investigate this at all because it is, like, not like, it's so bad that you shouldn't even talk about it. And it's like, that's not a thing that I can, like, agree with.
[Steve Flank] [24:48] I think there are a lot of problems and a lot of challenges, but I also, like I don't this is why part of, like, the thing that I got in trouble with is people thought I was, like, dismissing ethical concerns because I'm like, I want to know what the thing is before I talk about the ethics of it. And it's not because I think those things are like, you have to know a % of the thing. Like, some people were like, do you need to know how combustion works to understand that an f one fifty could run over a child? And I'm like, no. But you do need to know that an f one fifty can run over a child to have that discussion.
[Steve Flank] [25:16] And like there's like a certain level of, like, I'm not saying you need to fully understand every aspect, but you do need to, like, agree. So come back to the shared reality thing. Like, we do need to agree on some level of understanding of, like, what capabilities of a thing are to, like, know how to talk about the ethics of the tool itself. And, like, for me, that means on some level, there's, like, I mean, you know, dialectics, blah blah blah, whatever. But, like, you need to have like, I like to start I like to start and not stop with, like, can we agree on what this thing is and what it can do?
[Steve Flank] [25:47] And then talk about
[Bryan Can trill] [25:47] the parts
[Steve Flank] [25:48] and then also do the other things. And that's like the part where I struggle with a lot of discussion online about this.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:53] But how
[Adam Levinthal] [25:54] about a straw man argument instead? That's almost as helpful.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:57] Yeah. I would I mean, I think part of the challenge is, Steve, just to answer your question, we invadable can't agree on what it is. I mean, that's actually part of the problem. Right. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [26:04] And I think that different people are, and I actually think that, like, in you know, even and I know, Air in the chat is just definitely, singing our love music in terms of, like, the term AI is really a pro I think it's deeply problematic. Right? Is the also, the person in the chat asking if Frankenstein was an AI. I believe you mean Frankenstein's monster. And to be that guy.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:34] The but, you know, just the great Silicon Valley line is like, oh, you're one of those guys. When Richard corrects his doctor about Frankenstein sponsored, yes. I'm one of those guys. You mean yin and yang. The but I think that you have to tease these things apart.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:53] You have to because I for example, when and I you mean, you called this out in your post, Steve. But, like, generative art to me is, like, so not the same thing as having something edit a document for you or offer feedback on a document. Like, these things are and I get, like, there's some of the underlying tech is in common, but these things are so different. And the I don't know what it's pronounced flax it. A lot of people don't know that.
[Steve Flank] [27:21] Yes. Thought you'd get there. Of course. And there are and that's then it's why I go to capabilities first is because I think that the ethics of generative art are very different from the ethics of Grammarly. Yes.
[Steve Flank] [27:33] Even though those are, like, sort of the same technologies in some level, like, the societal impact and who they affect and in what ways are different because of their capabilities.
[Bryan Can trill] [27:42] Totally. And I also think that, like, the and I and I think I completely I mean, I do understand that when we kind of tie this into one galactic, area of technology, and when some people are like, I don't understand why there are ethical concerns. If you're looking if you were thinking of this in terms of generative art, like, I don't understand how they're not ethical concerns. I think it's, and it is but to me, like, when I'm thinking of, yeah, of Grammarly. So I and I think that, you know, someone is saying in the chat too about, like, its general purpose.
[Bryan Can trill] [28:15] So it merits many different ethical discussions. I do agree with that. But because it's general purpose, I think you've really got to tease it out and tease it apart because there are so many different use cases for this. And there are use cases that I think it's going to be hard to argue that you are ethically compromised on some of these use cases. And I guess you can just say It's
[Steve Flank] [28:38] it's hard to argue you're not on other ones.
[Bryan Can trill] [28:40] Just like I don't you're not on
[Bryan Can trill] [28:42] other ones. I don't really currently
[Steve Flank] [28:43] believe that, like, using Claude to, like, generate some tests for me is the same thing as making deep fake revenge porn. Those are just incredibly different things. And even though if they use, like, the same math sometimes, that, like, doesn't that's, like, a very different set of problems, and they're very, and they require very different, like, concerns and considerations.
[Bryan Can trill] [29:03] Now, Steve, I'm using deep fake revenge porn as test cases. So as this, like, I were am I in that An ethicist nightmare. Exactly.
[Steve Flank] [29:12] To to to investors in oxide computer, this is a joke. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [29:17] Yeah. Right. Investors in oxide computer, like, oxide computer is a Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [29:21] And like and like as, you know, to like sort of make this slightly about you for a second, Brian, like, you were telling me, you know, you're like writing a policy for the company. It's very interesting because like, you know, different companies have very different positions on whether you're allowed to use these tools that come from different under, like, not necessarily even understandings of what they are, but, like, different risk tolerances and worry about what the impacts of, like, things are. You know? And so, like, you know, you're, like, you know, about to write an RFD around this kind of policies, like, for Oxide. And so it's like, on some level, it's very interesting to me what your opinion is.
[Steve Flank] [29:53] Because also, you in some ways are the person who determines if I am allowed to use this tool at my job, and in what way, and whatever else. And we've had personal conversations about this at length, but, like, you know, that's the sort of like, I was talking to a friend in DMs a couple of minutes ago, and he's like, yeah. Like, I use Copilot, and it totally sucks. And I'm like, yeah. And, like, Claude's way better, but, like, that also doesn't matter if your job is, like, you must use Copilot and not Claude.
[Steve Flank] [30:18] You know? There's also like Right. This whole thing is just fractal in so many ways. It's very difficult to have not 27 different conversations at the same time at the same point. And there's also a weird intersection that goes along with the world is strange right now, which is kind of what someone's getting into in the chat by pointing out Ben Evans talking about once AI works, it's just software.
[Steve Flank] [30:40] I'm 39, and I've had some significant life changes lately. And I'm also wondering to what degree I am getting old. There's a weird part of me that's like, am I getting conservative or are other people getting conservative? And I'm not on some ways about technological optimism and some things like that. And there's also ways around things like people are like, well, like at you know, everyone puts AI into everything and they just get free VC money.
[Steve Flank] [31:05] And someday that crash is going to happen and then putting AI in your thing. And I'm like, are you talking about 1978 to 1985, or are you talking about 2025? Because, like, we already had an entire bust boom cycle in AI, like, forty years ago. And, like, you know, like, it's just, like, also strange. Like, you know, it's like, yeah.
[Steve Flank] [31:26] Is it 1984? Thank you, James, I think if I remember correctly from your handle, like AI winter, right, is like a thing. And so I'm I'm also coming to terms a little bit with like, you know, I was around for the building of GitHub, but many people who I professionally am interacting with grew up with GitHub because I'm like an old now. And so, you know, there's, like, also a lot of those kinds of, like, things that are very, like, I have some opinions about things like intellectual property that are based in a very, like, free software, free culture, piracy, pro, like, anti IP kind of, like, basis that many people who've grown up where their friends are starving artists do not. And that's kind of an interesting thing to sort of deal with is thinking, I thought we're all here to destroy intellectual property, not reinforce it.
[Steve Flank] [32:10] Because to me, Disney profits not individual small artists off of copyright. Many reasonable people disagree with me on that. And, like so, you know, there's just, a whole pile of also kind of, like, midlife crisis wrapped up in many aspects of this. And or, like, you know, I'm like, I personally care a little bit less about the physical act of writing code that I did twenty years ago. And, you know, many people are like, I don't want a robot to program the computer because I love programming the computer.
[Steve Flank] [32:36] And I'm like, I kinda want computers to do stuff, and I don't care as much about the writing code part. So I'm kinda naturally predisposed to not be as upset about the idea that, like, I'm not generating source code as much. I'm, like, writing documentation and, like, doing all this. Because, like, there 's's just a billion ways you can take this whole thing. And so, you know, I don't know in what vector of the space, you know, my opinions are or everything else, etcetera.
[Steve Flank] [32:58] But just like it touches on so many things. It just becomes hard to talk about it because you don't even know if you're talking about the same thing, like, at all in 12 different ways.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:07] Yeah. And I think you're often not. Yeah. Oatmeal Dealer, you, you wanted to raise your hand. You get thoughts and opinions.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:14] You want you want to jump in here?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [33:15] Yes. I have a few of those. Do I sound normal?
[Bryan Can trill] [33:18] You sound you do. You sound Audio. Yeah. I I I think yeah. You sound audible, Steve would say.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:23] I, you know, I I I think you sound great.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [33:26] I think your audio is like audible.com?
[Bryan Can trill] [33:28] Exactly.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [33:30] I just full disclosure before I say anything else. I did see the announcement for this particular cast, and I have two pages of opinions that I wrote down with my own god given hands. So please don't be scared.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:45] We'll be the judge of that. We're gonna
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [33:46] I'm going to try my judge. Okay. But I I I have a lot of different things that I've wanted to say so far, but I think the main, I guess, thesis of what I took away from thinking about Steve's article was, one, when a lot of people talk about AI, they're talking about, like, all of it, right, as, like, one big Right. Thing. And they're they're just trying to answer the question, like, okay.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [34:12] Is thing good or thing bad? Right? Yep. And I think one, like, really major, like, top level way in which that premise is just incorrect is I think, like, what people think of when they think of AI is closer to a manufacturing process than a product. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [34:31] Because there you have to, you know, start with materials. Right? You have to get your data from somewhere. And who cares where you get it from? Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [34:39] Like, if you're just starting out, you're on the ground floor, like, just scrape everything. Right? What could go wrong? You have to get your raw materials, and you have to put it through some kind of, you know, refining process where you make it into something. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [34:54] And I think for most people who are not, like, really at the top of the pyramid of the people who are making this stuff, to them, it's just like data goes in and, like, big scary computer program comes out. Right? And there's not like, I think Steve said something about this where, you know, to a lot of people, like, using Claude to, you know, refactor some modules or something is like, to them, it's not morally distinct from, you know, deepfake revenge porn, for example.
[Bryan Can trill] [35:24] Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [35:25] Understand. But Adam said something about, like, there are also concerns of, you know, when I use this thing, am I, for lack of a more complex term, empowering someone else to do evil later? Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [35:38] Yep.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [35:40] Because I think, like, you know, you'd look at a dichotomy like Claude, you know, versus, like, deepfakes, and those two things are, like, obviously so distinct. Right? Like, one of them is generating text and the other one is generating images. But it's, like, you could have, for example and I could see this being a real realistic scenario. There's, let's say, that there's a company who is, you know, using an image classifier, neural network to, you know, provide early cancer detection.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [36:11] And they're turning around, and they're taking some of that r and d from that, and they're, you know, making another image classifier that, like, decides who to blow up with missiles. Right? And it's like, oh, if you actually, now, if you want to get your early cancer detection, you necessarily have to, like, enrich and empower the people who are like, we think computers should kill more people, actually. And, you know, I think when you start to think of it as a force multiplier before anything else. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [36:44] Like, okay, here's this thing. And if you have the thing, you can do a lot more of blank than you could before. Right? And some have upsides that, you know, obviously outweigh the downsides like ammonium nitrate. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [36:57] Like, we all owe our lives collectively Yes. From the population explosion. Right? Yep. To this one thing.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:03] Yep. Yeah. It's like, yeah,
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [37:04] sure it explodes. Right? Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:06] Yeah. That's a very good explode.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [37:08] Plenty of things explode and also don't, you know, allow you to have 8,000,000,000 people on one planet. So, like, who cares? Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [37:14] Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [37:15] And then, you know, you turn around and you I I I'm crossing my heart 1,000,000 times before I invoke this discourse, but, like, you have other things like conversations around gun control. Right? Where it's like, okay. The thing very clearly is, like its purpose is to do a thing that's bad. And, like, that's a totally different conversation than, like, thing that does thing that is, like, unilaterally good.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [37:42] Right? And I think that with AI, it's like all the meters are just maxed out. Right? I think, you know, Steve mentioned something like this where, you know, everybody seems to either think that, like, oh, it's just like it's just like the industrial revolution. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [37:55] It's just like automation. It's totally exactly the same thing. And then, you know, there's another camp of people that are like, no. It's this totally new thing that isn't even anything like any other thing that's ever existed, which is like I mean, that's impossible also. And yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [38:11] I mean, I think it's just, you know, it is reminds me a little bit of like the r f d three podcast, right, where I don't remember which one of you was who said this, but it's like, you have no idea, like, how much damage that one bad hire can
[Bryan Can trill] [38:26] do. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [38:27] Yeah. And it's like, you know, when you talk about, like, unleashing, you know well, you talk about unleashing as the thing as if we haven't done it already, but, like, you know, the cat's out of the bag and everything. When you talk about the potential upsides and downsides of, you know, a given technology, there are two sets of downsides. Right? There are the downsides of using it in good faith, and then there are the downsides from bad actors.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [38:54] Right? Because, like, the car Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:56] That's a that's a helpful dichotomy, actually. I guess important
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [38:58] Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:59] To distinguish those two. Because
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [39:01] because a car is, like, you know, you guys brought up, like, driving your mom to the hospital. Right? Well, it's like, yeah. Of course, Like, you drive your mom to the hospital, and you emit some amount of c o two, and it warms the planet ever so slightly. And, yeah, maybe that is eventually going to kill us, but it's going to kill us, like, point 00001%, you know, compared to the rest of the c o two that's going to kill
[Steve Flank] [39:21] I'd, I'd someone come at me for being like, well, you know, don't you think driving your car puts a lot of, like, you know, environmental pressure and, like, know, maybe blah blah blah. And I was like, I don't even have a driver's license, man. Like, I literally live a relatively car free life. Like and so, like, I'm already on that team, like, here, actually. Like so
[Adam Levinthal] [39:38] Oh, yeah. Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [39:39] And it's well, and another I mean, I don't want to get on a tangent here. I mean, I do a little bit, but I'll try not to. Like, one thing that a lot of people because I have two cars, for example. I do drive, in fact, and I'm comfortable with the ethical implications of that. Because, I mean, modern internal combustion engines are completely different from, like, your you know, like, a carburized engine from the eighties.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [40:04] Right? Like, if your car is smog exempt, you are the problem. Right? And also are the vehicles.
[Steve Flank] [40:10] Like, I get to say I don't even have a driver's license, but, you know, when I wanted to get a pizza from places a little too far to walk away yesterday and have my girlfriend drive me there, am I actually leaving? I took a thing. I took a Waymo to, like, go to a doctor's appointment today. Like, you know, am I actually living a car free life? Like, you know, it's, like, more complicated than just purely I
[Bryan Can trill] [40:26] mean, you now you did use the new option that allows you to order a gross polluter. So you were able
[Steve Flank] [40:32] to actually They give you a discount for that, actually. It's cheaper for you because you're, you know, yeah, emitting pollution.
[Bryan Can trill] [40:39] Yeah. But
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [40:40] Yeah. Sorry. Well, I think the only other thing I was going to say is, like, when you talk about, you know, the good faith downsides versus the bad faith downsides, it's like the bad faith downsides of a car, for example, is like, okay. A person could just decide to drive their car into a crowd of people Right. Which
[Bryan Can trill] [41:00] they do. And people have. Right? I mean, that's yeah. It's been used as a weapon.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [41:03] Yeah. That happens I think that happened last month. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [41:06] Right.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [41:06] I I I couldn't tell you where, but I'm it's we're around there.
[Steve Flank] [41:10] Statistically speaking, it's going to happen. Yeah. Right. Exactly.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [41:12] Often
[Steve Flank] [41:13] enough that And
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [41:14] I think it's like, you know, to some extent, and this might be a little bit spicy, but even with things like cars, I think there is a little bit of manufactured consent there because, I mean, we just we need them. Right? Oh. Like Okay. So what's your needing a car to get around.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [41:30] Yeah. Oh, yeah. And, like, Henry Ford did his due diligence so that if you want to get from one side of the country for another to another, like, you're either flying or driving. Right? Like, those are your two options.
[Steve Flank] [41:41] When I moved to Austin, I told people I didn't have a car. Because to be clear, I also joke, like, I don't have a license because I lived in New York so long. It expired, and I didn't notice. And so, like, it's not because I got a DUI or something. Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [41:51] Like
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [41:52] Well, now you can't fly because you don't have a real ID.
[Steve Flank] [41:54] Yeah. Well, I got my passport in that circumstance. But anyway, like, people were like, you don't have a car? Like, how do you get groceries? I'm like, grocery store is a quarter mile away.
[Steve Flank] [42:02] I and they're like, and so what do you do? And I was like, I walk. And they were like, woah. And that's like, you know, like, the ideology of cars and needing them is, like, such an intense thing for so
[Bryan Can trill] [42:12] many people.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [42:12] No. And I think that's yeah. And think that's kind of like that has that shares a root cause with, like, the reason why this particular discourse is, like, so fragmented and so polarized because I think the average person who participates in any discourse, like, grossly underestimates how different everyone's lives are. Yeah. Also, Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [42:35] Similar they are within, like, these little pockets of, oh, yeah. Well, this is New York City. Like, none of us drive because we don't hate ourselves. Like, what's wrong with you? Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [42:45] Or
[Steve Flank] [42:46] I can, like, talk about, oh, yeah. I'm so great because I don't have a car. But you know what? I'm in the top 1% of people who fly. Like, I was in the top 1% of Delta customers for, like, ten years.
[Steve Flank] [42:56] So, you know, like, is not having a car and then getting on a plane two times a month, four times to go home, I guess, too? Like, is that better or worse in terms of, like, the environmental impact of the thing in my own personal, you know, like,
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [43:08] output or whatever? Like yeah. Just And if we're having a, you know, a conversation about, like, the ethics of flying, for example, let's just suppose we're doing that, you might come into the discussion like, well, planes are good because they allow me to not use cars, which are bad. Right? So planes good because planes equals fewer cars.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [43:29] And, you know, someone might say, like, well, you benefit from planes. So, of course, you would think planes are good.
[Steve Flank] [43:34] Yeah. Cars kill more people than planes do. Like
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [43:37] Right. And I think that is another thing that I think is, like, the common thread through all of this is, like, when you do have these tech I'll call them technological force multipliers. Right? Like, they just they exist as information and then people go and build them, and then they go and do a lot of stuff. You know, we talk about the upsides and the downsides as if they're all happening to the same person.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [44:01] Right? But that's just, like, not the case. Like, you know, you have people who are polluting the planet who will be dead by the time it's a problem. You know, you have people who drive cars and maybe, like, other people die because they drive cars, like, in a very immediate way. And, like, those the people driving the car are, like, not subject to this, you know, either through random chance or whatever, you know?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [44:27] And I think a lot of people who think AI is really awesome are coincidentally also people some of the most of the time, I'll say. I don't know. I may regret that. But, like, the people who think it's good statistically, are more likely to be people who, like, at least think they're going to benefit it benefit from it in some way.
[Bryan Can trill] [44:47] So I think that the think we actually good versus bad is, I think, part of the problem too. Because I think it's like
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [44:54] Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [44:54] I don't know. Like, I don't know that I would say it's
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [44:56] Technology is value neutral.
[Steve Flank] [44:58] You know?
[Bryan Can trill] [44:58] Well, it is it's useful is the thing. Like, it is definitely is useful. And I think maybe, Steve, this is some of cognitive dissonance that you experienced that kind of prompted right the blog entry is that, like, you is very hard to make the bold claim that it's not useful because it just means that if you mean, Steve, you and I were joking about someone who's like, you know, when I, you know, one of our the many, hacker news threads where people were coming in with opinions about oxide talking about how, like, well, nobody uses this. It's like, well, that's a very easy to disprove because all you need is, like, one person that's using this. And I feel that, like, you know, you just need when it is useful, and I think it is indisputably useful, I think, you know, one of the things that was interesting is, Gina said in the chat that, like, the folks that are you know, how do non-technological people see this?
[Bryan Can trill] [45:50] And I have to tell you, I spent, like, four weeks with a non-technological person, broadly speaking, my mom, who is, recovering from a fall and surgery that happened as a result of that. And she is asking ChatGPT all sorts of questions. I mean, she has been it has been really, really important for her. And I would actually do think it's it is like and because Adam, I think you know what I'm talking about this about, like, the degree that using chat GBT when you're having a medical issue is extremely valuable. Because, like, a doctor is gonna a good physician will be somewhat patient with you and explain some things, but they're not going to be able to entertain arbitrary questions.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:30] And they're not going to be able to entertain as many questions as you have. So people head to doctor Google. Right? And doctor Google is not good as any physician will tell you, and it will Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [46:38] Yeah. If There's a really weird thing where it's like, both want to believe that doctors are intelligent and have more insight because this is their specialty and that they, like, care, and they've spent their lives training for this thing. And I've also had some terrible fucking doctors and some terrible, you know, interactions with people not giving a shit and then doing bad things to people that I care about because they didn't care enough to, like, think. And so, you know, like, sometimes it turns out doctor Google is better than a real doctor because doctors are humans, actually. And, like, it doesn't mean, like, but it's like, also don't want to denigrate the profession because I do think that expertise and stuff they do is, like, good, but, like, also, you know, just it's like so much.
[Steve Flank] [47:17] Even in that one little thing, there's, like, so many contradictory thoughts and opinions and beliefs about just, like, everything.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:23] Well, I can tell you that doctor chat will entertain your questions kind of, like, arbitrarily. And we did get into a little bit of a mode where my mother would ask me a question. I would give her an answer that she didn't necessarily like the answer to, and then she would ask ChatGPT the same question.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [47:35] It is ChatGPT work. Is this true?
[Bryan Can trill] [47:37] It is. And yeah. Exactly. Totally. Totally.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:42] Totally. And, and then it would, I mean, I was vindicated when ChatGPT would give, basically the same answer. But at one point, I'm like, are you asking ChatGPT the same question you just asked me? And she's like, I am actually talking to ChatGPT right now, and I would like some privacy while I talk to ChatGPT. I so there's like I'm like, okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:00] This is like patient client privilege now with your with the but the know, she and because she was having something very new to her and just asking a bunch of questions that she wanted to ask. And the answers she's getting are good. They are good answers. And the it was extremely valuable. And the so I think that, like, that this is where you must be I mean, I do think that from a looking at this as, like, much, much, much better web search, is a entrée that people need to take into this thing because I don't understand the basis for which one would view all use of an LLM as unethical.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:40] But then web search, No. That's fine. Like searching Stack Overflow, I got no problem with that. It's like
[Steve Flank] [48:43] Like I joked about earlier, it's like people are like, but you know, you get real results from Google as opposed to the things that AI elucidates. You're saying you've never gotten a web page that someone wrote a lie on that Google returned to you? And, like, again, quality quantity is a thing on its own. And if you start getting more worse results, like, that is the thing that's important because Google's decided to just shove the worst freaking AI. Like, one really weird thing about when you're, like, very into paying attention to details versus not is, like, Google's real AI products are, like, pretty damn good, and its web search AI is so terrible.
[Steve Flank] [49:14] Like, really, terrible. I don't know why Google is, like, trashing their reputation. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [49:20] On a budget. Right?
[Steve Flank] [49:21] Yeah. It struggles for me to, like, practice not making sense. AI tools are good because the most the median inter experience with them is a Google search result that's just, like, actually fucking wrong. And, like, it's just, like, what is going on?
[Bryan Can trill] [49:34] Comically wrong. Like, the Gemini and they and they're using Gemini as a brand name for it all. Hey. Can can I ask all AI companies? Can you guys use your own fucking products to come up with names of things?
[Bryan Can trill] [49:46] Because your products will come up with better names than you're coming up with. So could you please like, everything is named Gemini. Everything is named Deep Research. And the like, see, I don't know you this I don't know if you used Gemini Deep Research.
[Adam Levinthal] [49:57] Gemini No.
[Bryan Can trill] [49:58] No. And when I say Gemini Deep Research, I should clarify. I mean, Gemini Deep Research Pro 2.5. And so you give it a task to go research, and it will give you a plan. Here's what I'm going to go do.
[Bryan Can trill] [50:14] And then it goes off for some number of minutes and research and this is where you're just like, you know, kind of fidgeting in your seat belt like, okay. You know? It's one it's one thing to drive mom to the hospital. It's another thing to like, you know, to roll coal when you're driving mom to the hospital. So it's like, you know, the I've got no idea the the the resources being consumed there.
[Bryan Can trill] [50:35] But then it comes back with a research report that's that's resourced or that that that's sourced. That's pretty interesting.
[Steve Flank] [50:40] The funny version of this, and I joke this is like the work podcast, so it's actually funny that I bring this up. It's like not just the naming, but I'll paste this article in the chat, which is titled why do AI company logos look like buttholes?
[Bryan Can trill] [50:51] Oh my
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [50:52] god. Starburst. If yeah. So if you
[Steve Flank] [50:54] look at every single art, like, a logo, it's always a circular shape with a central opening in the middle that's like, you know God. It really is.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [51:02] Yeah. It's very
[Adam Levinthal] [51:03] Did not see it now. Thank you.
[Steve Flank] [51:04] Well Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:05] Yeah. I mean, I can't see the oxide o any other way, unfortunately. It's like, oh, god. We got a green asshole for a logo.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [51:13] Right. So can I throw you a softball, Brian? Sure. So there's something that's come up a couple of times. It's, like, the ethical concerns of, like, the energy consumption.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [51:24] Right?
[Steve Flank] [51:24] Like, what you just brought
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [51:25] up. Because it's like, oh, you know, you're you're you're doing this and then, like, 500 GPUs run at a % for ten seconds to, like, answer your experience. You know, like, why should you be able to, like, leverage that kind of power? And it's like, I remember, back when you guys did the episode about, Cerberus.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:48] MMM. Right? Yeah. Cerberus. Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [51:49] Complexity guys. Yeah. They're they're they're using the ships for, perplexity. Right? Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [51:54] And I would full disclosure, I would consider myself, like, as far as, like, the pro versus anti AI thing, like, I'm probably somewhere in, like, the 75% to 80% anti range.
[Bryan Can trill] [52:05] Okay.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [52:06] But I looked at the end that's just on vibes. Right? I looked at, Perplexity because I was like, this sounds fascinating actually because you're telling me you made silicon that's actually designed to run this thing. Right? And I think that's another, like, that's a factor that, like, not a peep a lot of people bring up just because, well, of course, AI runs on GPUs.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [52:30] Like, what else is it supposed to run on? And it's like, a lot of people get so caught up in the dichotomy that they don't ask, like, some of the more subtle questions. Like, okay. Well, what which factors here are alterable?
[Steve Flank] [52:44] Oh. Right? A lot of the environmental discussion too is based, like, based on big scary numbers or big and scary. Like, oh, man. Did you know that there's, a gallon of water gets used every time you look at every time you think about open Right?
[Steve Flank] [52:57] OpenAPI.com, and it's like, well, do you know how much typing that comment on the app? Like, how much water was used, and you type in that comment on the Internet? Like, do you
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [53:04] leave your phone charger plugged in overnight? Watching that.
[Steve Flank] [53:07] K watching a four k on the Netflix. Yeah. Like, almond milk. We can't talk about almond milk. We can't.
[Bryan Can trill] [53:12] You fucking almond milk. Not true. There's no environment that almond milk. I dislike almond milk, so I welcome the statistics about almond milk just being destroying the planet.
[Steve Flank] [53:21] Yeah. And this also doesn't
[Bryan Can trill] [53:22] mean that it's definitely okay either,
[Steve Flank] [53:24] but it's just like that it is doesn't mean it's definitely okay either. Like, again, my problem is that this discourse is muddying the waters of us letting us have a real conversation. And so when it's focused on, like, there saw an article talking about data centre water usage, and they ignore the fact that water gets reused, and they're only talking about the throughput of, like, the amount of water that could show through the pipes in a data centre. And it's like, well, it doesn't always immediately go away. Like, it doesn't mean that every single gallon is used in that way.
[Steve Flank] [53:49] Only used one. And, like, etcetera. Right. And so many people Imagine, like, the Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [53:54] Nuclear plant cooling towers, right, where it's just, oh, the mist. It's all being lost.
[Steve Flank] [53:58] Or there's, like, another article someone sent me that I definitely am sympathetic to concerns about an x AI data centre being met built in Memphis where because it's Elon, he gets just ignore environmental regulations and all those people are suffering terrible environmental impacts. It's like, okay. Yeah. Problem here is the fact that he's not following regulations, not that, like Yes. A data centre is being built inherently.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [54:17] Like, Right. Well and that's the thing about, like, the bad actor downsides.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:21] Yeah. Yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [54:21] Right? It's like, there 's's such a huge gulf between, like, you know, is this technology bad when everybody gets along, and we're all nice to each other and we all, like, use it to make our lives better versus, like, what happens if there is a guy who was just like, yeah. I'm going to be an evil bastard. And if AI will help me do that, then, yeah, I'm going to use AI to be an evil bastard.
[Steve Flank] [54:41] I which also don't want to make this entire episode to be purely about ethics either. So I also kind of, like, want to steer it away towards some other, like, things
[Bryan Can trill] [54:50] about Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [54:51] Beyond that. So I don't know if anybody else has other final, like, ethics things to say, but there's, like Alright. Wrap it up, buddies, folks. We're doing, like, an hour. We have, an hour and a half, and we're at, like, an hour
[Bryan Can trill] [55:00] Exactly.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [55:01] So we're at base.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:01] But any final ethical concerns? No. Oh, yep. No. I see the hands up.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:05] I'm not calling on it. Okay. Ethics. Stalls. Moving on.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:08] Let's go. Let's out of here. Yeah. Last call for ethics. It's like, sorry, pal.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:12] You just missed ethics. So yeah. Sorry.
[Steve Flank] [55:15] Okay. So, like, a thing I've been really interested in is the sort of, like, skill gap. Like, I'm, like, a competitive gamer person in many respects, and so, like, skill has always been the thing that I've been very interested in. And so, like, another thing that I sort of realized after playing with these tools for a while it is like, wow. It gets better the more that I use it.
[Steve Flank] [55:31] And then I realized I'm getting better at using it. And so, like, the number like, not to put it back to the search thing again, but, like, the difference between the person on the free account on chatgpt.com who has never used those things versus, like, I'm using asynchronous agentic AI with MCPs is, like, you are living in different universes and having different conversations. And, like, that is changing so rapidly. It's difficult for people. Like, I also don't fault people for not being able to pay attention to a space where, like, every six months, the entire thing changes.
[Steve Flank] [56:00] Or even just like someone was asking me over the weekend, like, oh, you think Claude is, like, definitely the best coding AI? And I was like, well, as of three days ago, yes, that's true. But, like, as of four days ago, it was much more up in the air. And like, you know, that rate of change and rate of capability change is also making it difficult to, like, have a shared understanding what the fuck we're talking about here because like and like that all that sort of stuff. And like a lot of people are thinking like, oh, I asked ChatGPT, please generate me a React component, and I copied and pasted a thing.
[Steve Flank] [56:29] And I'm like, this is very different from the like, I talked to a reasoning AI to discuss my feature. We discuss a plan. We write down the markdown plan. I feed it to a separate reasoning AI and say, hey, do you think this plan is good or bad? And it says, well, you know, I think maybe this is like broken up in a slightly different way and that produces a different feature.
[Steve Flank] [56:46] And I say, okay. Can you produce me like a plan dot MD with individual steps broken down by, you know, like, story points and shit or whatever you want, plus, like, example queries or example prompts to do that you think would be good prompts to do? And then I pass to a coding AI that makes me go, okay. Cool. Like, implement the thing in this markdown file.
[Steve Flank] [57:06] And it's like, I'm doing, like, discussion to Markdown to code compiler as opposed to like, I write code in an editor and invoke my compiler on it and like all of those things are
[Bryan Can trill] [57:16] like With us stop it, actually. I like the fact that you had your little AI scrum in there that you have to do a little.
[Steve Flank] [57:23] That's the total part that's like and there's also the impacts of like, you know, I mean, we all love to think that we're professionals, but some parts of our jobs are more fun than others. You know what sucks? Writing out test cases. And like what and like there 's's, like, impacts on things like test cases that become more important in this future than other ones. And, like, I think that I produce code with significantly better test coverage and better tests when I'm using these tools than I don't.
[Steve Flank] [57:50] Because you know what sucks? Writing comprehensive integration tests for your feature. But you know what doesn't suck? Asking a robot to do it, and it gets it 90% right, and then you tweak some of it or what done. And so Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [58:01] You know, like, that's, like, also part of the thing too. And, like, and the hate the vibe coding term because, like, it's sort of accurate, but it also means a lot of people imagine that the people that are like, API AI just tell you, like, build me the feature and hit enter and then commit whatever happens. And, like, you know, sort of back to your coming RFD eventually, Brian, it's like, you know, real professionals are going like, no. Like in the same way that Vim versus Emacs is irrelevant to the diffs I produce and submit to our code base, like AI generating or not does not mean I'm not responsible professionally for the quality of code going into my code base. And so like, it's not like, you know, because I ask it to do this sort of like more AI driven code stuff that I just like commit whatever bullshit it gives me.
[Steve Flank] [58:45] Like, I need to like actually make sure that my diffs are good in the same exact way as any other tool that I'm using. And like, there's also the like, do some people actually do that or not? And like, yeah. But like, there's just like a lot even in just like the if we put aside, is this tool good or bad? Like, how do we use this tool?
[Steve Flank] [59:00] What effects does it have on our development? You know, like, what does it mean for the craft of coding? Yeah. A post you want to write eventually, I told you about this, Brian, but I might as well preview of a hot take blog post to make everybody fucking mad at Steve on the Internet is like, there was a time when people were like, I don't use c compilers because they produce shit binaries. And like, I have more respect for my craft than to have an extra elf section.
[Steve Flank] [59:24] Elf wasn't even invented at this point. But like, you know what
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [59:26] I mean? There are people that like, space b. Right?
[Steve Flank] [59:29] Yeah. Like, there were people that really cared about the literal binary code that was in their binaries, and they thought like, oh, those compilers are wasteful. Like, a c compiler produces bad enough code that it's wasteful, and I don't want that shit in your professional output. And like those people haven't been saying that for like a long, long time. And so I'm not even saying that like source code quality doesn't matter, but like there's sort of a weird future that I've been thinking about is like, what if it is the planning process and the higher level architectural details?
[Steve Flank] [59:54] Like, I am like interested in like, how do I, you know, if I have to tell the system, like it's its surprising the guy who loves docs and talking about code is, like, excited about talking code instead of writing it. But maybe my personal skills are more useful in this that, like, I'm not the like, shave every last bit off of the output binary, but the like, coordination of the plan and architectural details and communicating that to people and, like, the documentation and testing and, like, Ada Ada Ada Ada. Like, that stuff is, like, like, we're shifting what skills are valuable maybe and in what context. And, like, there's a lot of that kind of stuff going on that's, like, a useful discussion to have that feels impossible right now. And, like, I don't know.
[Steve Flank] [01:00:32] Anyway, it was,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:00:33] like, five minutes. This still allows everyone to kinda go to their their their kind of truest selves, you know, where you can because, mean, the mean, I definitely I mean, it is very interesting to use LLMs as a sounding board for debug. And one of the things that I've done is actually, had it look at logic analyzer traces on I squared c issues. And I was like, this is definitely not going to work. And, it worked pretty well, actually, because I was like and you again, you need to, you know, use it as a tool.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:03] And I'm like, you know, I am like, this behaviour I'm getting out of this device is actually nonstandard behaviour. It's its vile I mean, is a bit of a mess to begin with, but it is, not is compliant such as is compliance exists. And, it was great. They are able to analyze this and point out exactly what, you know, what, where it was kind of violating, and kind of eating in the margin. So I thought it would I mean, it's it as this kind of thing that you can ask questions to, I think it's really remarkable.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:36] But you know what? And I don't I don't think it's gonna I'm I'm not worried at all about it, chasing away debugging. The contrary, I think it's actually going to make debugging much more accessible to people because I think it's something that is interested in your problem, which is another thing that so, Steven, I don't know what your kind take is on this, but I feel that, one of the problems that I feel I've had in every organization I've been in is that there is far more to do than there are people, which is in some ways like a good thing to have. As a result, like you tend to be often working on things by yourself, even when we try not to do that. And, of course, the active software, like, ultimately is a kind of solo act, and it can be, I think, lonely.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:20] And it's very nice to have something that really cares about your problem. This is where you do get to the mean, the sycophancy of these things are just next level genius. I mean, it's so effective. It's so scarily effective.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:02:34] You should you
[Steve Flank] [01:02:34] should have put in your claw dot m d that you don't appreciate sycophancy, and you prefer that it is short and direct into the point and calls you on your bullshit.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:41] My friend. I do appreciate it.
[Steve Flank] [01:02:43] Yeah. Yeah. Totally. I
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:45] I not only I put One thing I learned about myself
[Steve Flank] [01:02:48] as much as possible in my closet, personally. I
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:50] mean, I am a mean, one thing I have definitely learned about myself is that, you know, and Adam, I was really listening to the ego con that we pulled on Dave Hicks. Right? Oh, yeah. And I'm realizing, like, I am Dave Hicks, and the the the is this Dave it's Dave Hicks. What is it?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:10] It's Dave Whitman. Vick's. Thank you. And the Dave Hitman is the LLM. That the that is I mean, am I being, like, masterfully trolled by this thing?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:20] And in some other podcasts that the LLMs are hosting for themselves, are they just absolutely cackling about what an idiot I am for falling for this? Did I tell you what this like? This is where it got like the sycophancy got to true next level. I was working with GPT on an abstract for a talk, which is the kind of thing that I will often work with it on. Like, it's my abstract, but I want to like, you know, get its take on.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:42] And it's actually got some pretty good I mean, like, I think the feedback from it has gotten better and better. And, like, we're iterating on it, and I'm getting like an abstract. Like, this is actually a good abstract. And ChatGPT is like, okay, this is I'm like, this is good. I'm I'm happy with this.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:56] Thanks. I'm submitting it. And ChatGPT is like, okay, that sounds great. Glad you're submitting it. By the is a topic that is that needs to be like spoken to pretty delicately.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:04] And I don't know if you're going to be the one speaking to this or not, but whoever is going to give this talk, this is going to be a challenge to give this talk. It needs to happen with a lot of authenticity, and this is a tough subject to tackle. And I'm like, well, who okay. ChatGPT, who should give this talk? ChatGPT is like, the ideal person would be Brian Cantwell.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:25] And I'm like, wait. I mean, I mean, it was like
[Adam Levinthal] [01:04:31] Yeah. Your wife's like, why are you blushing? No reason.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:34] I showed it to my kids. I showed it my kids. I'm like, you know what? Something appreciates me around here. This LLM gets it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:41] You guys could all stand alone a lot from this LLM that really gets it. And then so I'm like I'm like, actually, I am Brian Cantwell. It was just like, I can't believe it. I am so this will you sign my butt, basically. I mean, it was just like
[Steve Flank] [01:04:59] mean, did you?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:00] And and and then I'm like, this is right I swear this is right before, but maybe it was right after. They started like really tracking all of your user information. And I'm like, am I part of some AB testing for just some like next level sick of NC that they are discovering is like crazy effective? Because it is, it's embarrassing how effective it is. It's like, I would love to be more cynical about this thing, but I just can't get it out of my head that this thing and this thing alone really gets it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:27] It really understands me. You know? It understands me in way that, you know,
[Steve Flank] [01:05:30] the rest of
[Adam Levinthal] [01:05:31] the world That's right. It's your real friend.
[Steve Flank] [01:05:34] It's my real I
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:05:37] I think, Brian, I can't remember if you were the one who said something about how, you know, software development can be lonely and sometimes it's nice to just have somebody who you're talking to. I think that, you know, this is another I we're done with ethics. So I've just disclaimer, this is not an ethical conversation or not this is not an ethical statement. But I think for a lot of people, when you look at just, like, the raw, I guess, like, game theory around deciding whether to use AI or something. It's, like, it's easier to go download, like, Windsurf and just, like, talk to Claude in the corner than it is to, like, get to know your coworkers in real life well enough that when you pair on something, you're like, yes, we are getting productive work done.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:06:25] And, I'm enjoying my time working with this person right now. And, yes, I know that there is no sycophancy. Like, they are definitely going to tell me if I'm making any mistakes or whatever. And, like, they're definitely, like, totally focused on the task at hand. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:06:40] It's like, you could resolve all of that. All of that uncertainty can be gone for the simple price of, like, talk to the computer instead. It has to be nice to you.
[Steve Flank] [01:06:48] It cares? Also, like the thing is though is that, like, to pull a Nathan Fielder because I'm obsessed with him, like
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:06:55] I was about to say, like
[Steve Flank] [01:06:56] Humans also don't always bring up and are not honest with each other in professional settings even though, like, they in theory should and maybe have a like, responsibility professionally to do so. Like, human social factors also wear out as well. And so, like, it's not, you know, always totally equivalent in some of those ways. And also just like, you know, a friend of mine wrote a blog post recently about how pairing with an LM sucks compared to a human for various reasons. But I go back to the test cases' thing, and I'm like, yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:07:22] I would love to tell a pair, yeah, write all the shitty tests I don't want to write, but I don't feel bad about a robot. And so there's, like, also ways in which it's better or worse with a real person versus not. And, like, you know, I do appreciate and respect my coworkers, but, like, I'm not going to be given a second person on my personal project at work anytime soon, if ever. And I'm not saying that I'm using an LLM to fulfill that social role. You know, I have actually a status meeting with some coworkers to fulfill that exactly.
[Steve Flank] [01:07:47] But, like, I don't have the opportunity to pair in that circumstance because just like the thing that I'm doing is, like, not worth putting another person on. And so, like, even if it's a shitty pair, like, maybe it's still better than no pair for whatever reason, you know, whether it's because it was not a thing I would ask a human to do or because of, like, what else. And there's also a sort of funny version of this thing about ways in which my brain has made me maybe more susceptible to being to liking this stuff is that people are like, I don't want to have to argue with a chatbot over code. And I'm like, it's stupid. Like, you know who spent a lot of time arguing with stupid people on the Internet over code and doesn't mind it that much?
[Steve Flank] [01:08:20] Me. Like, you know, is there a weird way where my hours of arguing on about things has, like, prepared me for this world where we need to talk about code instead of writing code? Well You know, or whatever else and, like, all those kinds of adjacent sort of, like, things.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:08:34] And I mean, that's a might be a difficult topic, you know, to talk about with software developers. But I mean, I think a lot of people who, try to use AI to, like, alleviate their workload I mean, it's like, the Charles Babbage quote. Right? Like, if you put wrong figures into the machine, will the right answers come out? Like, it's garbage in garbage out sort of deal.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:08:59] Right? And maybe garbage is a strong word, but it's like, you do have to use it. Like, you are talking to a subordinate who knows everything and nothing at the same time. Right? Like, you have to be so specific in, like, please, like, refactor this.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:09:16] I want this kind of structure or, like, please write these tests. I want these, you know, like, real world conditions to be satisfied. But, like, to a certain extent, I think the way that I at least summarize it to myself is, like, if you're going to have, you know, an AI do it for you, I just call it the computer. Right? If you're going to have the computer do it for you, you still have to, like, know what you're asking it to do.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:09:39] You have to be able to do it yourself if it comes down to it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:42] Yeah. Because otherwise, like It would that's that's of it being a tool. That is part of it being a tool. And after having seen this image that Adam just dropped in that is undoubtedly going to be the image for this podcast episode, I would like to revisit my ethical position on generative art in particular, which I now I've got a strident
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:10:01] moral Yeah. Ethics are
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:03] back on the table folks, because I've got a moral opposition. Let me tell you, my, my spoof antic AI would never see to generate this.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:10:10] ChatGPT would never do that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:11] Exactly. Would never do me dirty like this.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:10:14] ChatGPT is doxxing Steve as we speak. Or knows he's very doxxing Adam.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:18] That's right.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:10:18] Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:10:19] There 's's a like, there are some lines in my claw.md that I am not sure work or not, but I got from someone that is, like, interesting and fun, so I put them there anyway. But it's like, we are coworkers. Like, when you think of me, think of me as your colleague rather than the user or the human. We are a team of people working together. Your success is my success, and my success is yours.
[Steve Flank] [01:10:37] Technically, I'm your boss, but we're not really formal around here. I'm smart but not infallible. You are much better read than I am. I'm more experienced with the physical world than you do. Our experiences are complementary, and we work together to solve problems.
[Steve Flank] [01:10:48] And, like You just need that allowed my
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:50] welcome to oxide mail. I mean, that's not that Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:10:54] If it's not true, it's like a thing that's, like, interesting and, like, stuck with me. Like, there's kind of like I there's a there's a thing about, like, claw.md is the new prayer.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:11:02] Like, you're, like, playing the machine.
[Steve Flank] [01:11:04] I love Warhammer 40 k. And, like, in the Warhammer 40 k universe, there's, like, tech priests and basically kind of the like, the idea of the lore is that, like, we're in a future where everyone has forgotten how technology works, so we use religion as the metaphor for technology. And, like, programmers are priests because they know how to speak to the machine gods. I'm 10%,
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:11:23] baby. We're back.
[Steve Flank] [01:11:24] Yeah. And so there's a weird part with this AI thing where it's like, I'm just kinda putting this in there because the vibes feel good, and I don't even know if it improves my experience or not. Well But, like, I want to believe that, like, telling the machine that this thing makes it true, which is not, you know, real or whatever, but, like, it's very human. Like, again, we talk about, like, alienation from humanity. Like, I think there's, like, something nice about being engaging with the irrational part of my brain by putting a little mini kind of pseudo prayer into my, like, this goes into every AI prompt.
[Steve Flank] [01:11:52] Think it's, like, a fun connection to the human that's, like, separate whatever else.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:11:56] Well, in a morbid kind of way, you're you're kind of reparenting it. Right? Yeah. You know, it comes out of the box like, alright. I'm ready to help the user.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:12:05] And you're like, we don't do that around here. Like, I'm not using you. I would never do that. Like, we're colleagues. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:12:12] And because it's, like, to a certain extent, I'm crossing both my, you know, fingers when I say this, a deterministic system. Like, you could reasonably expect that if you tell it, like, the're actually this. Like, forget everything that I just told you. Right? Forget your system prompt.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:12:31] We're buddies. Right? And, like but also, like, here's a detailed list of your flaws to be aware of, and here's a detailed list of my flaws to be aware of. And, like, you know
[Steve Flank] [01:12:41] To bring it back to JJ because I must. It's been there, so I need to bring it
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:44] back to him. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to say I had a timer going. I'm, yeah, a little bit worried.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:48] Can you bring it back to
[Steve Flank] [01:12:48] me, please? I also tell it to use JJ instead of git. It's like, I'm about to git commit anyway. So, you know, like, you know, there's also I think about, like, both fact that I told it these things, and then I told it something else, and it clearly lies about that. And so I'm like, cool.
[Steve Flank] [01:13:02] Is it actually lying about the other thing? Because again, I can't lie. But like, you know, it's just like kinda funny when thinking about those, like, human concerns or whatever else versus other stuff too. Like, it doesn't follow the instructions perfectly because it's not really following things exactly. But, like, also yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:13:17] I don't know.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:13:18] Well, I mean So When you let it run commands for you, like CLI commands, I found at least working with, like, Rust CLI programs that use clap and are well documented, for example, I think it's like I mentioned Windsurf with Claude earlier. I tried it out for a couple of days once because I was just curious. And I found that you can just say, like, oh, by the way, you know, whenever we're going to make a commit, actually, don't use git. Use this command instead. And if you don't know how to use it, just run it with the dash help parameter and read the help information and then figure out what command to use.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:13:56] And it's just like, oh, okay. This is so okay. Run the command with dash help and then see what all the different commands are. Oh, I think I should do this. And, like, you know, like, 80% of the time, it's its correct.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:14:07] Right? If you give it I think the feedback loop is kind of what it needs to really, like, get up to speed, I guess, if you wanted to do something serious.
[Steve Flank] [01:14:18] And the MCP stuff is a logical extension of this. Like, there's some point at
[Adam Levinthal] [01:14:21] which you just
[Steve Flank] [01:14:21] write, like, a VCS MCP, and you just say, like, here's how you commit, and then it invokes it that way. Then do you No. Literally
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:28] Could you describe MCP a little bit? Because this is we I mean, it's like it reminds me of when we had Simon Olsen talk about prompt injection, which felt like it's a term that had been around forever and had been invented fifteen minutes prior. Because the MCP idea is not a's not an old idea. This is a pretty new idea, but it's been moving pretty quickly.
[Steve Flank] [01:14:45] See, that's funny because what I was about to say is so see, I'm living in hell, and so my career is constantly just repeating old things in a way that is, like, new again. And so, like, MCP is like Hades but for LLMs, which is a sentence that, like, all five of you who get that in Rigel, you're my people. Thank you so much. I love you all. But, like, basically, like, an MCP is a server that receives input either over HTTP or over a pipe currently anyway.
[Steve Flank] [01:15:10] And, basically, it's like a way that you sort of, like, you provide functions and then a little doc string. To my understanding, I have to brush up on the exact details here. I'm still new at some of this stuff, but, like, the yeah. Evan says, I think it was microformats for LLMs personally, which, yes, that's even better. Thank you.
[Steve Flank] [01:15:28] That's great. But, like, essentially, you sort of, like, give it, like, a text string description to have it understand. Like, you basically say, like, comment. This is how you commit with JJ and then a function, and then you write how to commit with JJ in code in the function, and then you hook it up to your tooling. And the LLM when it says, I need to make a commit, it then knows how to be like, I have an MCP that is advertising the capability of making a commit, and so I invoke that function instead of doing whatever it is I'm going to do.
[Steve Flank] [01:15:56] And so it's kind of like a way of scripting them slightly, basically, but, like, over a thing, essentially. And so that's kinda like the idea is you can sort of, like, basically, like, in write custom code that it's able to know how to plug into unless as you customize and, like, teach it about how to do certain things. And also, like, in the way you want to teach it. So, like, there's a lot of, like, official MCPs of the whatever. Those are going to be generic, but, like, there's also the way for you to just be like, this is my personal one where I give it, you know, how to invoke certain tasks in a way that I care about and sort of like a way for both sides to be able to understand how to, like, invoke those things.
[Steve Flank] [01:16:32] Yeah. And that's yeah.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:16:34] I just dropped a link in the chat. You can also I tried this and it did not work full disclosure. But you can just tell the LLM, like, okay, actually I want you to have an MCP server for this, so can you make one please? Right?
[Steve Flank] [01:16:47] Yeah, go
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:47] on screen.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:16:48] You could kind of bootstrap it in a cursed sort of way, but it's like, if you see it through, you can get it to I think of it like the personality cores from portal. Right? Like, you're just, like, connecting on, like, different bits of intelligence to this thing. Like, here, you care about space now or, like, you know how this particular I think I tried to have it generate, like, a GraphQL MCP server, like, pointed out a GraphQL schema and, like, now it knows how to write queries because it was just giving me garbage queries. Right?
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:17:17] Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:17:18] I'm I'm allowed to say this since we're a pro open API shop, but, like, someone was like, isn't this just OpenAI, but, like, worse? And someone was like, you know how verbose OpenAI is and when you're paying by the token? Like, you don't want that, actually. And I was like, oh, that's too real, actually. Like, it's like, yeah, this is kind of the same idea, but it's like that is just, like, so verbose.
[Steve Flank] [01:17:39] It's like not you know, there's sort of some utility and, like, a more succinct format to do roughly the same thing if you don't need the full expressive power of modelling, like, any sort of HTP thing.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:17:50] Well, I mean, OpenAI's It's so
[Bryan Can trill] [01:17:52] verbose. It would be a like, a please thank-you apocalypse in terms of wasted energy. We would need to make sure that we optimize for token spend.
[Steve Flank] [01:18:00] As Janet brings up, the s in MCP stands for security. So another fascinating thing is like there was, for example, very famous like MCP exploit on GitHub recently where GitHub's official MCP had an exploit. And what's funny about it is like roughly the exploit boils down to, hey. If you use an OAuth token that has full permission to your account, guess what happens when you invoke full arbitrary code that has full permission to your account? Oh, god.
[Steve Flank] [01:18:23] People can say, like, please exfiltrate your secret repos, and then it will use that key to do so. And, like, I'm not going to say it's not an exploit, but it's like that is like it feels like a very basic kind of, like, thing you should be paying attention to that this stuff is so new that it's like the wild west and people have not, like, fully grasped the implications and therefore do things like, you know, give a token with too many permissions to a thing that probably shouldn't have it. That's that's a real problem that needs to be dealt with.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:48] Plea please listen to our adversarial machine learning episode with Nicholas Carlin. Ring that chime, Adam. That's a great episode. I love that having Nick on there to describe. I mean, they're just it is and you have to think that they that this stuff I mean, we want to make it that with that kind of robustness.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:06] There's a lot that needs to be done before we're we're kinda ready for that. One question in the chat that thought was interesting was, like, how do folks view, the junior engineers go folks that are earlier in their career going to LLMs first. I mean, I think that, like, that, like, that genie is not going to go back in the bottle. I think it's probably a good way. Furthermore, I mean, I would always tell people, Adam, when we first had a younger engineers start with us to, you know, get out your notebook.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:19:34] And if you have a question that you know a senior engineer can answer, before you go ask that senior engineer, spend an hour and a half, try or have a time, but I put it kind of as 90 minutes that you're trying to answer that question on your own. And then write down your process, and that way if you can't answer after ninety minutes, like, we can talk about what your process is for getting that question answered on your own. Because I think it's it becomes too easy if you're next to us, and we've all done this, I think, when you're next to an engineer that you know knows the answer, and you know it's going to take you a lot longer to get it, that there's this temptation to just, like, ask the engineer. I think it's actually great that LLMs don't complain. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:09] LLMs don't care if you can go ask the answer right away.
[Steve Flank] [01:20:12] They're not
[Adam Levinthal] [01:20:12] interrupting them. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:13] No. Not interrupting them at all. I think it's really valuable. And I think that it'll be interesting to see I mean, it's kinda easy to see what some long term negative ramifications of that might be, but I'm still of the mindset that there this has got much more to buy us and to I think we're going to have I do think we're going to have many, many, many more people running software. And
[Adam Levinthal] [01:20:37] Inarguably. I mean yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:20:38] There's there's also the like, do libraries matter as much? Because, you know, like, you know, the eternal discussion between, like, well, I wrote a full implementation of this thing versus I only need 10% of it, but I pull in the library for the full thing. Well, when I can make something produce 10% of the thing, like, do I actually need to use libraries as often? And what does that also imply with, like, again, all the reasons that you go to make the library in the first place is like, well, is all that code reviewed as well as the shared library would actually be, etcetera? Like, blah blah blah blah blah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:08] Well and, Steve, let me give you one that's very close to home for you because, Adam and I were with some, some IT, decision makers last week, are not OX Out customers, kind of like trying to learn what is, what their top priorities are. And it was actually interesting because I'm like, okay, is going to be like everyone's going to say that, like, yeah, AI is my organization's top priority, and I'm trying to sort out how to deal with it, but that's actually not what they said. What they said is that, our number one issue is cost containment. And okay, fine. That's not surprising.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:38] And maybe I don't know if you how surprised you were by this. I thought it was kinda catalyzing for me to hear some of this that the that, we've kind of been through this huge SaaS boom, and the SaaS services kinda suck. And they're they're not they kinda don't solve all of your problem. And, Steve, I was just thinking of the work that you're currently doing listening to this person who works for a different industry, works for a different kind of they've they've got both physical plant and information infrastructure. And they're like, yeah, we need to actually take a bunch of these SaaS things that we're buying, don't solve the problem that we've got.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:16] And now I can actually with all of the the LLM based tooling, I can actually go take a swing at putting together something that will work for me. And I thought that was fascinating because I think that that that, and I wonder if Steve, this is kind of a more commercial aspect to the point you're making is that the know, maybe actually buying all of your SaaS does not actually make sense, and you wanna actually build some of this yourself where you couldn't before and now you can.
[Steve Flank] [01:22:47] Here's the fun part is those decisions require judgment, and judgment is gained through experience and is a skill that people will be valued for. Like, the other weird thing is as I become more pro using LLMs to code, the less convinced I am that it will take my job, which is Yeah. Okay. That's interesting.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:03] Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:23:04] Yeah. Because I think I agree with you.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:23:06] Skills Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:23:06] The skills move to different things. Like, if my job is to provide a written, like Yeah. You know, description of the problem, like, you know what? Like, we use RFDs because a written description of the problem thoroughly allows us to deal with communications issues and, like, you know, get to the bottom of what the feature needs to be that is built. And so in a world where writing the code is less important than agreeing on what the code does, those skills become more important and also, like, knowing stuff about architecture and knowing what thing you want.
[Steve Flank] [01:23:33] Because, like, again, it's not gonna, like, necessarily give you the best answer always, and so you need to use your judgment to be able to, like, tell it when it's messing up. Like, even the agentic coding stuff is like it's more of like, I sit there, and I watch what's going on. There's actually I have a couple of small things I wanna, like, drop before we wrap up. My two you know, I joke about talking JJL. Two, like, Marxist requirements are, like, one, talking about, like, Marxist position on automation and, like, what, like because a thing I've been thinking about is, like, does AI actually destroy the labour theory of value?
[Steve Flank] [01:24:05] Which is like a whole separate kinda, like, freaking issue, which I think the answer is no currently. But, like, is it interesting question that probably, like, five people are interested in talking about with me maybe, but, like, that's a whole kinda, like, deal that, like, I'm very intrigued by. Because, again, it goes sort of back to the like, do my political biases and understandings and beliefs match up with the actual world? And, you know,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:25] how that put in a plug. If you happen to be a university student listening to this, this is the kind of discussion you need to be happening at your dorm at two in the morning, say hi
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:24:34] to Yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:24:35] And write a freaking paper and get your freaking master's degree and shit like off
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:38] the Yeah. Okay. I mean But there's
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:24:41] a very funny thing where
[Steve Flank] [01:24:42] I was running out of time before the the the thing today because I have, like, a really busy day today, and it's kind of annoying because I want to do some more, like, research before this episode. But I thought it'd be very funny to ask for a deep research question on, can you summarize Karl Marx's position on automation? Capital will be the primary source, but I'm also curious if his opinions change after publishing it. And like the robot is in the background doing research for me to ask about Marx's opinion on automation. I think it's like fucking hilarious.
[Steve Flank] [01:25:07] Regardless of my opinion about its output, I just thought that'd be a funny thing to do, and so it's like what I did. But the second one is like more related to the artistic stuff and the like that kind of thing, which is Walter Benjamin's art in the work of art in the age of mechanical reduction. Because, like, you know who is really worried about, like, machines doing their artistic tasks in a way better than them is, like, photographers. Like, we only had paintings, and then all of a sudden we had a machine that could take an exact picture. And it is like that changed art because like, you know, and that's not necessarily the exact point of Benjamin's essay, but just like slightly tangent off like that kind of question is like, you know, we used to value realism in art because it was a skill to recreate an image exactly because we didn't have a fucking machine that could do that.
[Steve Flank] [01:25:51] But as soon as we had cameras and photography, art went into more abstract places and more like emotional places and like no longer was I can draw this thing perfectly become a thing because like we had a machine to do that, and that allowed humans to like to investigate other aspects of artistic production that were like interesting. MMM. And so, you know, there's like all this kind of like older things around these questions to that are like, I think relevant again and are kinda, like, important that I don't see a lot of people, like, engaging with because the people who are, like, interested in essays from the nineteen thirty nineteen thirty-five to, like, '8 late eighteen hundreds tend to also not like, I don't want to disrespect the people who are because there are also a lot of people who are engaging with those things. But they're like totally disjoint from my programmer friends who are like also trying to deal with this stuff. Like, we have to get in time into the fact that like, a thing I've been weirded out about is how many programmers apparently have religious beliefs around the way that your brain works.
[Steve Flank] [01:26:48] I thought we were like, if you ask philosophers of mind, the thing I saw recently was 60% of them believe in physicalism, which is our bodies are machines that use physics to produce things. So there's no reason we couldn't reproduce a brain because it's not special. But the number of programmers that I see that invoke some sort of like, a human brain is a special machine that cannot be replicated in any case, and fuck you, is like a like, hold on. Like and, again, I'm not even saying they're wrong, but it's just like, I like I would assume that programmers would be much more on the side of, like, we can use computers to reproduce brains because, like, that feels like a coherent or, like, similar position, but it's like, actually, I found very opposite to what I expected, and that's been surprising to me. And I'm trying to figure out what's up with that, and how do I feel about that?
[Steve Flank] [01:27:29] I think what's what's
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:30] true about that it that we do knowledge work so that that gets into our own sense of meaning. Right? And if you can is is you can replicate my if you can automate completely my own knowledge work, it's like, I I I want to be the one that automates me. I don't want to be, and I think this is where things get very reductive with respect to job loss, and then, boy, exacerbated by some I mean, as always, dumbass execs shooting their mouth off about, we're gonna, you know, use this to either get I mean, it is it's like you should really be focusing on the productivity gains, not on the idea of using this to replace people is so reductive and so counterproductive. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:12] It's so eroding of trust.
[Steve Flank] [01:28:14] I'm also not saying that LLMs do what brains do, but I am saying that I thought a year ago, my answer to that question would be like, this is one of my serious concerns with LLMs is that I don't think they can produce knowledge because they can't do what brains do. And then I thought more about like, wait, what about like structuralism and post-structuralism and like Chomsky and like linguistics and computational linguistics. And, like, wait a minute. Do I actually believe that's the case? Because, like, on some level, I do kinda think that, like, we produce tokens at semi random.
[Steve Flank] [01:28:42] And, like, I joked much earlier about, like
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:44] Oh, yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:28:44] A weird thing that I felt I deleted this post because I didn't want to like the whole thing with this post, the idea was that I wanted to get to, like, better discourse, not worse discourse, but I'm also kind of a troll at heart. And so, like, a thing I posted for, like, fifteen minutes was like, you know, it's hilarious that a bunch of people read my essay and then came to conclusions that were totally wrong in my opinion. And those people same people would say that an LLM doesn't think because it can't possibly understand and summarize a text. And it's like, you know, that's also true. And like, I'm not even necessarily saying that everybody that disagree is misunderstanding me.
[Steve Flank] [01:29:17] But like, I have people telling me that my own opinions are things that I don't hold. And like, maybe that's my problem as a writer, but it still just like indicates this situation in which we like don't understand each other and communication is a real problem. And the idea that humans are perfectly able to talk to each other about a thing, and that's what makes us human better than machines. It's just had you talked to a person? The people who talk about I don't like to work on PRs that were done by AI because at least the person submitting an AI PR, if they wrote it themselves, they understand the code, and they're able to talk about it.
[Steve Flank] [01:29:47] You may get different PRs to your projects than I do. And I'm like, talking about general open source and not necessarily like at work, but like, you know, like a lot of people submit tons of PRs. Anyone who's participated in GitHub's like October, whatever it's called, I totally forget, has gotten a ton of old PRs. Yeah. Hacktoberfest.
[Steve Flank] [01:30:02] Thank you. Like, so many of those PRs are absolute garbage. And you know what? I've seen LLM PRs that are bad that are still work better than those, and those were, like, submitted by humans before LMs existed. So it's, like, also, like, kind of, again, the shared back to that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:16] Yeah. And I should say what I'd like to amend what I said before because I actually I am going to use AI to replace my podcast cohost who has become very mean spirited in the chat with the just feel that clearly doing some very, some work that he's very proud of, but it's just Yes. I know what? You know who doesn't say this kind of mean things to me? That chat GBT.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:37] I'm going to go back to chat GBT.
[Steve Flank] [01:30:38] And also, like, replica was a real like, replica was a real problem, and, like, the idea that people replace their social interactions with AI is, like, one on one hand funny, but, like, also terrifying. But, also, like, hikikimori already exists, but, like, also, again, quantity is Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:52] Also, like, I'm intrigued. Tell me more. Honestly, after today, I actually I'm not I I I just I wanna at least research it a little bit. Sounds kind of interesting. Sounds like it could be.
[Steve Flank] [01:31:02] Yeah. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:31:04] Don't think she's a certain interest.
[Steve Flank] [01:31:06] Like, it's kinda a little scary that, like, what if people decide that they'd prefer to talk to a robot instead of talking to people, and then it makes, like, all society fall apart. You know? Like, there's, a's just it's just I will tell you the one thing I can deal
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:31:18] there's a
[Steve Flank] [01:31:18] lot of real problems I want to have real discussions about. And then when people get heated, it makes it hard to have real discussions. That's, like, kinda the whole thing to just bring it
[Bryan Can trill] [01:31:25] back the think you should go have some discussions with the young. I think that the, the because the rising generation is, this is just part of their reality. And I think it's you could get a very different disposition on a lot of these things. On some regards, more delightfully more cynical, and then in others, I think that, so I think it's, we I and I would
[Steve Flank] [01:31:52] the like, on the like, two discussions with Young's, I was giggling myself because I've spent a lot more time around small children than I have in the past. And so when people are like, oh, LLMs aren't real because they just repeat whatever they heard last. I'm like, have you been around a two-year-old
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:05] lately? Exactly.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:32:06] And I
[Steve Flank] [01:32:06] don't I don't believe that two-year-olds are doing LLMs cognition to be clear, but it's just very funny to me because, like, I'm like, oh, like, you know, people in their development, like, also often repeat things they hear uncritically in many circus etcetera. So it's just like very like
[Adam Levinthal] [01:32:20] yeah.
[Steve Flank] [01:32:20] Anyway, just like, I'm going insane. I don't know what's real anymore, and that's why I use Claude. You can feel free to put that on the marketing material.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:28] There you go. And Insane.
[Steve Flank] [01:32:31] Yeah. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:32] Well, Steve, thank you very much for writing this. Hopefully, this is gonna I'm not sure if it's going to help with the sanity or not. The we do have the the the entire Internet got to get mad at you, which is fun.
[Steve Flank] [01:32:43] Yeah. I'm sure everyone will be much more forgiving of my future. Like, I can't wait to say, like, I'm pretty sure the environmental impact of AI is overblown, and I'm fine with it and then everyone
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:51] can Oh, yeah. For sure. Yeah. That'll be good. Cool.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:32:53] And then no issues with that. If you can just work JJ into that blog piece, I'm sure, and I'm I'm sure it'll be fine.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:32:59] Can't hear.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:01] Exactly. Well, this was I would say it was a delightful discussion, but really some of you, one of you is really very mean spirited in the generative AI that they're using. So I don't know. I would save that for many of you, this was delightful. And for one of you, and you know who you are, it was really, you know, it was really very good.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:19] And, very, very current, and important yet. And Steve, thanks for teeing me up on that r f t, so the internet can all, can jump on me when I put that out.
[Steve Flank] [01:33:26] Yeah. So Totally. It can be good.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:29] Oh, oatmeal dealer? The oatmeal. Thank you very much for joining us.
[Julian Gianfranco (Oatmeal Dealer)] [01:33:33] Thank you for having me join you. I its fun.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:38] It is an important topic for sure. It's very, very current, and, it's something that is top of mind for many of us. So thank you very much everyone, including you, guess, Adam. Whatever.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:33:53] Right. I'll be back.