[Bryan Can trill] [00:00] Think I've invited Robert to speak.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:02] And Craig and Gi arc have dinged. Now that I've given them I've I've succumbed to their demands.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:10] Listen to podcast parts when Craig and GRX says it starts. I do I also do love this is where you get a little bit of a Tomas and Cayman thing and that they, like you would think you might have some redundancy with the twins here, but they actually apparently think with a like mind.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:23] They have a yeah. So they shield at least a like set of permissions in Discord.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:28] Listen. Tomas and Payment had a had shared the pain. These guys share permissions. Makes more sense.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:36] It's a little less It makes more sense. Fantastical.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:38] It's a little more pedestrian, a little more a little more quotidian, but come on. I mean, this is just like, you know, we're just Yeah. Trying to be realistic over here.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:45] There you go.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:47] Robert, you're here.
[Robert Mustachio] [00:49] Yeah. Good evening.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:50] Excellent. How are you? You know, the former colleague, Alex Wilson, said, you know, it is really great to see you kicking off Robert Mistake appreciation week this way.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:01] That's funny. I got a very different, sounding message from him.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06] Well, I I I don't know if you quite ate the hook the way I did, but I was just like, oh, we are that an is that a thing? We do is that like an annual thing? Because we have a colleague CJ has, kicks off and there there there is an Eric Anderson appreciation day here at Oxide for one of our employees. So, Mike, seems like a reasonable thing that we would do to have a Robert Masaccio appreciation week. I don't know, Mike, have we so after like I can't quite tell if he's joking or not.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34] So I did ask him like, are we is that like a thing? Have we done that? He's like, oh, yeah. It's definitely a thing. Like, we've got it's documented in RM.c, and there are it's actually an extraordinary block comment complete with diagrams.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:48] And I'm like, Okay. What? Where's this? Like, I've clearly missed something. I'm like, have I missed a like, annual celebration that we do about and then my mind's going to super weird places, like, have I always been, like, out for our mistake appreciation week?
[Bryan Can trill] [02:05] Is that a source of resentment that Robert I mean, I just don't know. You know, I'm just like, and then like, where is RM.c? And so I did I looked for I went to some pretty obscure places looking for this thing and I finally, I can't find it. And I'm looking at some by the way, I do not recommend looking some of these r m r m dot c, I mean, Robert, I guess this is the curse of having a name that is a old Unix command, but, hey, you know, I've got BMC over here, Basement Management Controller. I'm not it's not it's not good over here.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:34] Yeah. How have you ever been in r m dot c?
[Robert Mustachio] [02:38] I have a little bit. It is not a track information.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:41] Yeah. It is really not a good-looking file, but I can't find this thing. And so finally, after like a half an hour, I'm like, here. Okay. Look, I'm I'm going to have to ask the embarrassing question.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:50] Like, where is root c? He's like, oh, no, I just made all that up. I'm like he's like, but there, but he said, but there should be a Robert Malachias Week. I'm like, there okay. Alright.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:02] Alright. There we go. There we are. That way that there definitely should be. So
[Robert Mustachio] [03:05] Yes. I think better off about it.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:09] Well, Robert, we are very grateful for you joining us. And so, here's what I, and actually it was funny because, you know, just earlier today, we had someone by the office who was asking about how have you been at Oxide? How have you done hardware software co design? Like, how do you how are you able to do that? How they're just like, it's organizationally challenging.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:32] It's obviously technically challenging. And I was like, you need to you have to tune in to the podcast tonight when we have Robert on for Holistic Engineering because so Robert, you and I have had the blessing of working together for a really long time, for I mean, I for much of your professional career, and much my professional career at this point too, but, I guess a greater percentage of yours, just given our relative differences in age. But you came out to Sun as a well, originally to microelectronics. Right? As an intern in 2008, maybe?
[Bryan Can trill] [04:06] When was that?
[Robert Mustachio] [04:07] Yeah. Yeah. I did a brief stint on the KT verification,
[Bryan Can trill] [04:14] Burlington.
[Robert Mustachio] [04:15] And, you know, you got to see, the glory of a microprocessor that would ship really soon, not ship. So you can you kind of got to learn lessons that we're seeing today, from, you know, when you see Spark roadmaps from, some of the other CPU manufacturers, you know? You have to Right. Exactly. Okay.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:34] I I I lived that right. Okay. So then and then the next summer, you interned that would it was the next summer that you interned with us at Fish works in San Francisco. Right? Is that
[Robert Mustachio] [04:44] right? Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:44] Right. And that was great, obviously. And then we had a If I may, I'm sorry.
[Adam Levinthal] [04:49] So first, his internship was great. I and I can't take anything away from that. I would say that the thing I remember most from that internship is that Robert then and continues to be an amazing baker and, and maker of confections of all kinds. And I think it was that internship. I think it was that internship.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:11] It was
[Robert Mustachio] [05:11] for Monday Friday?
[Adam Levinthal] [05:12] Yes. Which spawned, I mean, the It it got it is true. The social food. That that launched the 1,000 ships, but
[Bryan Can trill] [05:20] It is really did launch a 1,000 ships. God, you know, Adam, I'm really glad you mentioned this because, you know, people thought they were tuning in for holistic engineering, and they're actually tuning in for the origin story of what we call food for money Friday. So do you, Adam, would you wanna or maybe Robert, may Adam do the honours to tell the origin story of food for money Friday? Because I do think it's important.
[Robert Mustachio] [05:41] Sure. Yeah. I can add my commentary, you know, the background thoughts I have, all different things were going on.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:46] There I mean, I
[Bryan Can trill] [05:47] I just got
[Adam Levinthal] [05:48] at I do wanna sort of get to the actual point of, like, what we're talking about, but I would just say that first
[Bryan Can trill] [05:54] The point of what we're talking about is food for Monday, Friday, sir.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:57] Okay. Good. Then allow me to digress. So Robert brought in these cheesecake brownies, which I think, Robert, you said took, like, all the butter in every Safe way. You'd, like, Smurf butter from all the different Safe ways in San Francisco.
[Robert Mustachio] [06:13] You know, there's no more. I mean, we used it. That's why there's an egg shortage now. So
[Bryan Can trill] [06:16] That's right. So that's why butter is in this pa this packaging, it's really hard to open because Robert was surfing butter back in 2009. And so they put a lot of legislation plates under lock and key. You have to ring the bell. Someone comes in and locks it for you anyway.
[Adam Levinthal] [06:31] It's California. So Robert brings in this delicious cheesecake brownie with 1000000000 calories. And I can't remember. I think we had already gotten to some like light food bedding here and there. And I think I said something like
[Robert Mustachio] [06:46] I, I,
[Bryan Can trill] [06:46] so I don't I'm okay. I'm I don't think that's part of her. It's correct, but okay. Yeah. So
[Adam Levinthal] [06:50] I think I was like, Brian, I'll, I'll pay you up $5 or whatever to eat the rest of it. And there was a lot left. And I think you, like, in a rare act of self-preservation.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:03] So it is my recollection Barbara, go ahead. What is your recollection of mine?
[Robert Mustachio] [07:05] I was going to say that basically, there's I think I was going to say there's about 1 inch of a 9 by 13 on the 9 of the, you know, on the 13 inches side that's been gone.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:13] Yeah. It's been gone. And my recollection, and actually it's interesting that we've got like a difference of dollar figure, I recall it being $10.
[Adam Levinthal] [07:21] Okay. Okay. Well Or
[Bryan Can trill] [07:22] maybe it was 5.
[Adam Levinthal] [07:23] Inflation adjustment.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:24] You say, I'll give you $10 to eat the rest of it. Yeah. And it is like 10:30 in the morning. Yeah. Which is going to be part
[Adam Levinthal] [07:33] later. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:34] It well, so I need to I am, like, I am extremely intrigued by this offer. This offer is fascinating to me, and I feel like this is not something that had happened in the past because I just felt like this was like a bolt of lightning from my maybe a way to call back to my youth of like, we can actually we can earn I can earn money while doing what I'm best at, eating. So this is like, Okay, this I am extremely interested, but I have to leave for a meeting. I have got like a- Jay Jacobs (zero fifty-six:fifty
[Adam Levinthal] [08:11] six): So what's the self-preservation? So the other thing I remember is- Jay Jacobs (zero fifty
[Bryan Can trill] [08:13] six:fifty-six): Oh, self-preservation. I absolutely wanted to I, like, I this you have made an intriguing offer, one that it didn't even occur to me to counteroffer.
[Adam Levinthal] [08:24] What I also remember is that even I think even before you had declined the number like, as soon as I said, you know, 5 or $10, everyone else on the team was kicking in. It was up to $75 almost immediately.
[Bryan Can trill] [08:37] That is my recollection too, and like an idea whose time had come. This just exploded. I mean, everybody I mean, no, I know that's like, I had to run for the meeting, and it felt like within seconds, the pot was at $75.
[Adam Levinthal] [08:51] It was like, I too would like to see this person commit ritual suicide.
[Bryan Can trill] [08:56] Right. And then our colleague, Julie, gets wind of this. And she's like, wait a minute. Is someone, like, is someone offering $75 for someone to eat all of that cheesecake? Like, I am I'm definitely in.
[Bryan Can trill] [09:06] I'm going to eat it all. Yeah. It's like, great. I leave.
[Adam Levinthal] [09:11] That's right. And we had some time based constraints that I won't go into the specifics of.
[Bryan Can trill] [09:18] I don't want to go into I don't want to go to the entire IOC rule book here in terms of the, you know, but with the, you know, was it a sanctioned event? You know, there's like, listen, there's a lot of, but I came back to Julie looking in front Robert, what is your recollection? I recall her having, like, one 1 and a half inch by 1 and a half inch square remaining.
[Robert Mustachio] [09:41] Something like that. I mean, I'll admit I was kind of in shock the whole time. You know, you bring this in, you're kind of trying to sort of be like, Hey, here's something nice for everyone. And then it's like, that becomes food for money.
[Adam Levinthal] [09:50] Yeah. This thing that I thought would be a delicious treat for everyone, I guess has become your prop bet.
[Bryan Can trill] [09:56] I guess, am I addicted to a crime or merely to very poor judgment?
[Robert Mustachio] [10:01] I'm definitely ruined cheesecake, I think, for some time.
[Adam Levinthal] [10:06] Oh, god. But, yeah. Brian, it was like an inch and a half by an inch and a half square.
[Robert Mustachio] [10:11] Yes.
[Adam Levinthal] [10:11] And you're just like, Julie, well, just, like, come on.
[Bryan Can trill] [10:13] I know. I was like, just put it in your mouth and force yourself to eat it. She's like, that's what I've been doing that's what I did for the last 4 of these squares. Like, I've already like, I literally can't look at it without wanting to throw up.
[Adam Levinthal] [10:25] So now this is the part of the story when usually I tell it to folks, and I'm like, and then Julie couldn't do it, so she didn't get the money. And everyone is aghast. Wait. You didn't give her the money?
[Bryan Can trill] [10:38] And I think no.
[Adam Levinthal] [10:39] I don't know. What kind of lesson are we teaching the children? And this is, you know Yeah. Exactly. And we had an arguable child with it.
[Adam Levinthal] [10:45] We'd like we had Robert as a
[Bryan Can trill] [10:47] young adult. Arguable, You know? Robert as an in college, very, for example, to the intern who was shocked and aghast that we had taken his very kind gesture and turned it into something that was just depraved.
[Adam Levinthal] [11:04] That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [11:05] But, no, she didn't get the money. She got the got the cheesecake. So it's like, like Uh-huh. Oh, Robert, I can't believe you worked with us anyway. We're so grateful that you that despite it all So, we we we will absolutely need to do a podcast episode only on Food for Money Friday, but let's just say we've had other A
[Adam Levinthal] [11:25] teaser episode.
[Bryan Can trill] [11:27] There's just a teaser episode. We have had other food for money adventures over the years and Robert was not the not not not for the last time with the intern involved. So, we have, which has become increasingly ambiguous for me. That's the yeah. I someone in the chat is asking.
[Bryan Can trill] [11:47] This is hazing. It's like, don't know that we actually volunteered to what we're doing to some legal.
[Adam Levinthal] [11:53] Yeah. No. I mean and no. We weren't, like, you know, a ritual of, I don't know, whatever position it was to like eat 90% of a cheesecake. No, this was all voluntary.
[Adam Levinthal] [12:03] These were all consulting consenting adults.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:06] That's right. Hazing is there are many attributes of hazing that are absent here. There is nothing. Yeah, exactly. So there
[Adam Levinthal] [12:11] actually is another, so, there's a kind of bait and switch, follow-up to this internship, which is Robert, Robert interned with us. Great. Not cheesecake included, but not with but not the only reason. It's a great internship. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:28] Yeah. Yeah. Great.
[Adam Levinthal] [12:28] Goes back to Brown University to finish out, get his degree. And we made Robert an offer to join us full-time, and he accepted. But in the meantime, we were off getting acquired by Oracle. Yes. And then, you know, you and I were off figuring out how not to work for Oracle.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:50] Yeah. And I felt very so we had I and Robert, I left what was in Oracle before you joined. And my recollection is that I reached out to you as I was leaving. I think I did anyway. I certainly felt very bad that you're going to be joining a bit of a ghost ship.
[Adam Levinthal] [13:08] Yeah. And, Robert joined, and I don't I don't know if it was clear that I was leaving or, but I was like, Robert, you know, it's a great learning opportunity, is me teaching you about all the stuff that I've done and everything that I've ever owned in case it comes up. And then I think I left 2 weeks later.
[Robert Mustachio] [13:29] Something like that. Yeah. That's a good learning exercise.
[Adam Levinthal] [13:32] There we go.
[Bryan Can trill] [13:34] Yeah. It was nice. So but fortunately, Robert, you, joined me at Joy ant. And, you and I did a ton of things together at Joy ant. But, something that you and I worked closely on early on was the port of KVM to Smarts, to our Lumps derivative at the time.
[Bryan Can trill] [13:56] And, was that, I mean, what is your memory of those years? I mean, is that is, that was a it was a bit of a terrifying project in that, we really needed to succeed, and it was really hard. But so, you and I worked very closely on KVM, and, which is great. And then what kinda in that so what my also kinda memory of those years is all the the the kind of our early interactions with Intel, and you're really owning that kind of the the the interaction with Intel. That seemed to happen pretty early on at Joint anyway.
[Bryan Can trill] [14:37] Is that an accurate recollection?
[Robert Mustachio] [14:39] Yeah. You know, I think we had some very early bits at 365 California. And then it was actually I think when Keith came on Right. He kinda was really driving more of those programs, and I was working with him there. And then I took over more and more of that as, Keith retired to the farm for the first but not last time.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:01] For the first but not last time. And so the, and I mean, you'd always I mean, I obviously always have had an interest in low level software and sharing, and I've always kind of been at that hardware software interface, but definitely found yourself there very much at Joy ant. And the the I mean, I well, do you have anything formative that you want to talk about? Because there's definitely something formative at Joint, obviously. And I don't know Alex is here in the chat, but, we definitely had a there were many episodes over the what, how many years were we together at Joint?
[Bryan Can trill] [15:40] Almost 10 years, 9 years at Joint.
[Robert Mustachio] [15:43] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [15:44] But at that kind of that that low level system software interface.
[Robert Mustachio] [15:48] I don't know. I think a lot of just learning how to learn and learning how to debug, especially in those early years. Because there are a lot of times when, you know, I would, might know the kind of question I wanted to ask, but not how to ask it. Or you or a lot of the rest of the team would kinda come in with some of the detract or other bits there. And I feel like also where one of the great adages, that I've kept in mind when being faced with gnarly problems, which is basically write debugging tools when you're stuck.
[Bryan Can trill] [16:19] Yeah. Interesting.
[Robert Mustachio] [16:20] Right. I don't know. I feel like that's a lot of so a lot of it is, during the times of really just figuring out how do you go learn a new subsystem that no one's been in really before and there's no one to go ask. Right. It's like, go ask like, how does this work?
[Robert Mustachio] [16:37] How does the Net Stack work? Or how does the USB stack work? It's like, oh, just go use some Trace, go use some MDB and start figuring it out.
[Bryan Can trill] [16:46] Okay. So this is a fascinating point about kinda learning how to learn and help not to be on the way. Like, there's no one you're in a subsystem where there is actually, like, you are going to be, if you're not already, you're going to be the local domain expert. So do you have a particular methodology when you're when you're going into, because I mean, one of the the I mean, one of the things that you, among your many, special attributes, I mean, you're a terrific code reviewer. And it means, how much do you go into a kind of new subsystem just by looking at like, just the actual code?
[Robert Mustachio] [17:25] I'd say, often there's some kind of group of questions I'm trying to ask or answer, and it'll be some combination of looking at codes. Basically, I have almost always have c scope, C scope with Vim integration that I've inherited from Dave and others over the years. Enough that I can set up Dave's keyboard, and we can have the same key bindings, which is shockingly convenient. Wow.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:49] Yeah. God. That's that's amazing.
[Robert Mustachio] [17:52] But that and using that with a combination of Trace, and this is where, like oh, I'm trying to get this. Some of the classic one-liners, like, instrumenting a module like all entry probes in a module and aggregating on probe funk, is 1, you know, aggregating on certain stacks and just, like, seeing what happens, trying to trace control flow or data flow.
[Bryan Can trill] [18:26] And then, do you do you when you're kind of in a new subsystem like that trying to ramp up on it, are you, like, writing down questions that you're trying to answer? I mean, how do you because I
[Robert Mustachio] [18:35] mean, you That's actually a good point. Because I think one thing that I've noticed that is having questions in the notebook and writing stuff down in there. I think that's one of the other things that I found really valuable, just trying to figure out what are you trying to do, or, trying to go to the trying to diagram out on a whiteboard what how the subsystem works and flows. I think, I remember we were debugging one of what was it? There was something with the X2 EPIC for the EPIC's PSM driver.
[Robert Mustachio] [19:13] And that that block diagram is now in, like, enter.c, but it filled up, like, 2 joint whiteboards. And a lot of it was just trying to understand, like, how can I understand this control flow well enough to know, like, what's going on? Where's everything flowing, etcetera? And that that's been a useful that's definitely a useful just kind of how can you understand it well enough to explain it to someone else? And I think that that's the other thing is, I was often sometimes sitting there talking with other folks in the office, or on chat, and using that as a way to kind of, like, have them sometimes ask they would ask me questions.
[Robert Mustachio] [19:51] Like, I know sometimes Josh and I or Dave and I or Patrick and I would just go there and, like or Alex, we probably did this a bunch at, 645 Montgomery. I remember there's that little bench behind your desks. And I feel like there would be a lot of kinds of questions and back and forth there. I'm just like, how does this, you know, kind of the old, like, add, you know, one of the useful things about being a TA is by the time you can finally explain to someone else, you might start to have an idea of what's going on.
[Bryan Can trill] [20:23] Yeah. That's fascinating because I mean, all 3 of us were TAS as undergraduates. It's very formative for all of us. MMM. And, yeah, I mean, this is not a deep thought, and anyone who's taught knows this, but, boy, when you teach something, you have to learn it with a whole different level of mastery.
[Bryan Can trill] [20:40] It's not, like, you can even do well in the course, and then you go to TA, and you're like, oh, my God. How did I even, like, pass this thing? I barely, like, I really I'm learning so much more. And because when people ask you sometimes when people will ask you a question, and you'll give an answer where they'll be like, oh, yeah, that's like a convincing answer, and you're like, That is not a commit, like, you are convinced by this answer because you don't actually, you're asking me the question because you don't actually know, but I actually know the limitation of my own knowledge and I have not given you a very good answer actually, and I actually need to go research that because I'm not, so that's interesting. And then Robert, I also think it's interesting that you're you mentioned the blog comment that actually gets because I mean, your blog comments are, I mean, Papoose Ultra, the the the ASCII art in your blog comments is the stuff of legend.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:27] The and I and I say this as someone who prides himself on his own ASCII art in my own block comments, but,
[Robert Mustachio] [21:35] Honestly, it's mostly just because I don't I just if I don't do it, I'm going to forget it all. And having it written down, like, I've gone back to some of these and been like, oh, good job, past me. Like, I'm glad this is here.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:46] I know. I was just going to say I forgot this entirely. Well, and the number of times we often talk about past Robert around here, and you will be like, we'll have a question you're like, God, I don't know. I'm like, actually, past Robert knows the answer to that question. I actually know that.
[Bryan Can trill] [22:01] And then like, fortunately, past me wrote this down. I have heard you say that so many times over our shared career and, but it's so because you mentioned that, like, when you're stuck right at debugging to right at debugging tooling. I definitely agree with that. But when you're stuck, you also write to write a block comment when and you can go make an artifact better by just explaining how it works.
[Robert Mustachio] [22:25] Yeah. I think as I've been looking back for my notebook here for things that are, things that aren't meeting notes, a lot of it really is, you know, just a bunch of things around, like, you know, if there are problems, it's like starting with questions I'm trying to answer and go figure out what those are. You know, even on Thursdays or Fridays, LRD IM hunt is the same thing. Just like what are some of the things what are some of the observations? What's different?
[Robert Mustachio] [22:56] You know, and I find that writing stuff down is a helpful focusing thing and that those for me.
[Bryan Can trill] [23:01] I learn
[Robert Mustachio] [23:01] a lot better. I mean, everyone learns in different ways, so it's not going to be the same for everyone. But for me, physically writing in mostly electrical curve that looks good from a distance is,
[Bryan Can trill] [23:13] Robert's cursive is, remarkable. It is, I think, we it's its fair to say. It is gives me great Robert, there has been there have been times when I have asked you to go back and read your own cursive and even you can struggle. Furthermore, it is beautiful, but it's just like I but if it's got this very I mean, obviously, you've seen plenty of Robert's curse of it. Furthermore, it definitely I feel like I'm reading a letter that Alexander Hamilton wrote to me.
[Bryan Can trill] [23:40] You know what I mean? It's got like it's got that kind of like 18th century vibe to it. Which is like I this is, it's gorgeous, but I just can't make it out. So, Robert, so this was all, I mean, kind of as the years go by at Joanne, I mean, you're going into to like kind of rappelling down into deeper and deeper caverns. And then I mean personally, I feel the Naples Ultra of this was on January 1, 2018, when, we saw a rather disturbing story on the internet.
[Bryan Can trill] [24:20] I assume. Do you want to describe what we saw on the internet and where that kind of led you?
[Robert Mustachio] [24:27] Yeah, actually I think my mind is that it was like you or Alex probably saw it first, probably with, with Spectre and Meltdown, a kind of this is being like the was it put back on Linux in a way that starts leaking and everyone's kind of denying it until they stop denying it? I think is the
[Bryan Can trill] [24:47] Yes. And it has become a hacker news story on January 1, 2018, if memory serves. And, I think I am I mean, certainly, I Alex, I'm sure saw it first. I definitely DM'd you being like, do we do you think this affects us? You're like, I don't know.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:06] We're learning about this for the first time, and this is us learning about Spectre and Meltdown, and then discovering that, we are vulnerable, and we are running in production in a public cloud. And, Meltdown in particular, was really, really acute. John Masters had done terrific work having a real, like vivid proof of concept of Meltdown.
[Adam Levinthal] [25:27] And how many, how many Intel CPUs did you have deployed at this point? It can't have been that many. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [25:34] Yeah. You know, it's funny, like, that is definitely like not a question we were going to go answer because it was just like, it's not actionable. It's, you're just like, how far is it down to the bottom? And it's like, it is enough, and you're at a height where you're going to die and nothing else actually matters. So it's like
[Adam Levinthal] [25:50] it is Beyond that, right?
[Robert Mustachio] [25:51] Beyond that, it is like More than 10. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:56] It was a lot. And, Alex and Robert, needed to go implement kernel page table isolation. And, I mean, Robert, I don't maybe that doesn't stand out for you as much as it does for me, but I that is one of the singular engineering efforts I feel I've ever been kind of in the proximity of. I mean, it was really extraordinary, under like the just, on the one hand, maybe the pressure was clarifying. Because you're just like, well, I didn't create this problem and, we'll definitely like it's very clear what to go do.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:29] This is not there's not a question about like, what is the highest priority thing to go do, which I feel is something as engineers we always grapple with. It's like, the highest priority thing is to go do this neurosurgery on the VM system.
[Robert Mustachio] [26:44] Yeah. There are a lot of different parts to it and so it was a combination of Alex and also John Levin.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:50] Right. Yeah. Right.
[Robert Mustachio] [26:51] Very helpful to have, while working on that and obviously lots of conversations with others. But, yeah, there was a were able to kinda split up the that work into a bunch of different pieces. I think I dealt with per CPU page tables, which was an exciting thing in its own right. I think Alex dealt with a lot of the trampoline assembly, but we also kind of settled on a unique solution. Furthermore, I feel like that hadn't really been done by others, with the per CPU page tables.
[Bryan Can trill] [27:28] But So do you could you talk a little bit about the problem we were solving? Like, what was the problem that we needed to go solve? What actually is Yeah. This is and this is just to be clear, this is for Meltdown, not for Spectre, but Meltdown was a much more acute of 2.
[Robert Mustachio] [27:42] Yeah. That's that's a great question. So, on x86 ARM, and a bunch of other and common RISC 5, RISC V, CPUs. When you use the MMU, you have page tables that describe, virtual to physical mappings. So every process has its own address space, and maps to generally disjoint physical memory and those page tables describe where they exist and different attributes.
[Robert Mustachio] [28:10] So some of those attributes say, you know, this page can be read, this page can be written, this page can be executed, One of the attributes are basically permissions in terms of which, what the privileges are required, to read, write, or execute that page. So you can really kind of think of this as that, there is a bunch of memory that people sometimes call kernel memory and then memory for processes but effectively, if you kind of take let's just use the 4 gigabyte 32-bit address space as a simple example for a second Every process has a 4 gigabyte address space or, you know, 64 bit process has 64 bits, with a bunch of holes. But the top gig in that 4 gig address space is always the kernel, and it's the same in every process. But, and that's there so that when you make a system call, you can start executing kernel text, and you don't have to go try and, you know, basically change the image context, change the page tables because that's generally expensive and potentially causes cache invalidations and a lot of, you know, it's the root of a lot of, CPU performance challenges.
[Bryan Can trill] [29:23] So And this has always been in x86. I mean, other architectures have done like Spark did things differently Yeah. Spark did with address based identifiers.
[Robert Mustachio] [29:31] Yeah. Exactly. But ARM through various incarnations these days, especially in the 64 bit, ARM V 8a profile, It looks very much like an X86 does, in that regard. But eventually there's a bit in there, or, you know, a few bits that say, is this should this page be a kernel page or a user page? And effectively, you know, what that's meant to say is that if you're a user process, even though those kernel pages and those kernel VA's exist, if you try to read them, you'll get a page fault and, you know, then the kernel will come and, you know, drop a signal on you to basically, you know, say you've been reading something that you can't.
[Robert Mustachio] [30:11] Unfortunately, through the power of speculation, what basically happened is that, that check happened, but after all the side effects of doing the read, we're pretty much done. So everything other than, you know, it doesn't show up in your register, but it's impacted, but it was loaded into all the caches and everything else such that, you could still see it. And basically, so basically you could read any arbitrary piece of kernel memory, you want. So whether that was, you know, someone's packets, security keys,
[Bryan Can trill] [30:51] you
[Robert Mustachio] [30:51] know, someone else's file system cache data. It was, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [30:56] And to be clear, the way you would do that is because you can, what you are controlling, that you should not have been able to control, but you are able to get this thing to do a load for you, but you can't see the results. So, the trick is, how do I exploit the side effects of that load, namely allocating in the cash? And then what can I go do to exploit those? And the things you can go support, as it turns out, you can have a conditional branch that then also gets executed speculatively, and then that can do something else in the cache that you can then go observe the side effects of. So, you can kind of chain together just to People may want to know, because I think one question people have is like, Well, wait a minute, why didn't someone discover this a lot earlier?
[Bryan Can trill] [31:39] And the answer is like, it's sophisticated in that you are
[Robert Mustachio] [31:45] you do have to kind of
[Bryan Can trill] [31:45] chain these things together, and I think that this had not this had been kind of in the abstract, we knew that kind of speculative attacks could be could happen. I don't think anyone thought that it would that they were going to be this brazen. And in particular, it is terrible, that it would speculatively execute on these addresses that you don't have the ability to read. It should the chip should never have done that. And Yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [32:11] There have been a bunch of a buildup in literature of kind of different l 3 cache attacks of kind of, like prime and like prime and pump and other things where you kind of start using L3 cache as shared resources, but people didn't expect you could kinda go through the page tables. Or, my favourite one really is eager FPU, which is kinda just a fun one of just like, oh, you really can speculate through everything.
[Bryan Can trill] [32:36] You really can speculate. I mean, with eager FPU in particular, and this is like fast-forward now, I don't know, maybe 9 months or 10 months, and we're having kind of what these constant calls with Intel where they're reviewing yet more. Because it is also true that, like, once the that the group discovered Spectre meltdown and I mean, we knew this was going to be just like, oh my god. It's going to be an absolute bonanza. Because now people know this is a target rich environment, and I can now go explore every unit in the part.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:05] And Robert, I think it was the eager FPU when I had missed the call with Intel because of another conflict. And you said, well, we've got another disclosure. What is the one unit we have not yet heard about from them? And I'm like, I've not heard anything about the FPU. You're like, yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:21] It's the FPU. It's like, oh my god. Literally every unit. Yeah. But yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:28] I mean,
[Robert Mustachio] [33:29] I'd say that's that's been one of the one of the small advantages of working for smaller companies that you get to explore a lot more of this stuff, thank you just really do at kinda some of the larger places because there's just you know, we're less cemented teams. So often, you know, there's not like, you know, a big kernel org sitting by or Right. You know, even if you look at, like, Apple, you know, what they have, they have a lot of different, you know, groups there is that, you know, a bug comes up, you're going to pass it off to that group, and, you know, you're not going to chase it down or look at it or have to figure it out, which is sometimes with a blessing and a and a curse. It can be great to have, you know, it's great to have a lot of different colleagues, but sometimes, it means there are less opportunities for you to learn or kind of move around in that regard.
[Adam Levinthal] [34:11] So I'd also say, Robert, if there are fewer opportunities for you to I think one of the things that you do well, I'm sure we're going to get into this, is cast that I that is so well-informed about disparate parts of the system. And I think that you're right that, like, a strength of a large organization is that you can have experts narrowly focused and, you know, it's its sometimes just a lot easier to be productive along those lines. But I think what they miss is the kind of system-wide insights that you've been able to make, you know, at Oxide, for example, because of your aware because of diving deep into all these different areas.
[Bryan Can trill] [34:49] Yeah. I think that the because I agree, Adam. I think that, like I don't know, Robert, sorry to speak about you in the 3rd person, but I feel like that is something that I feel I've I've kind of have seen more at, like, at Oxide, where it's like, at Joint, like, you dove deep into so many different domains. And then coming to Oxide, maybe it's a good opportunity to kind of fast-forward Oxide a little bit, but, you know, when we, we started the company and, able to raise money, and were able to convince you to join us, And you'd been thinking about a lot of these you'd gone deep in a lot of these disparate areas to the point that you were now really beginning to synthesize them. And maybe it was just that Oxide gave us the opportunity to do that synthesis.
[Bryan Can trill] [35:37] But, is that I mean, as you kinda think about your own story, is that kinda when that synthesis really begins to come into focus?
[Robert Mustachio] [35:45] I think it's when we're able to execute it most directly. I mean, so I think there's a remember Keith and I had like Keith was driving together. We had kind of this dog patch pitch. Must have been 2015, 2014? Yes.
[Robert Mustachio] [36:07] Maybe 2016 at the latest? Can't be that much.
[Bryan Can trill] [36:10] Oh, I did. Not 2016. It would be like the 2014, maybe even 2013.
[Robert Mustachio] [36:14] Yeah. Of kind of where we want to go, but with the constraints but with the constraints that, you know, effectively, you know, we're not doing our own boards. We're not really getting to that low access. You know, how do we how do we work with folks there? And at the same time, there's broader business constraints around, you know, who you have to work with, what's available on the market, you know, ultimately, to be economically minded in different ways.
[Robert Mustachio] [36:39] So But,
[Bryan Can trill] [36:40] you know
[Adam Levinthal] [36:40] Robert, can you talk about more, like, what problems you were trying to solve with dog Dogwatch, and what were the solutions? But before you get there, I just want to say, Brian, you mentioned hiring Robert. You failed to mention that he was actually your 1st hire. So, he is employee number 1.
[Bryan Can trill] [36:53] Joshua Sharkskin (zero six:fifty-six): first hire and also, I feel we definitely are so desperate for Robert that as soon as Robert is Robert kind of like tentatively said like, I guess I work here now. And we were both like, yes. Yes. You work here now. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:15] Yes. You work here. It was there was a moment of where it's like, okay. Like, Robert they don't so, like, sorry, Robert. You can't take it back.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:20] Now you work here. It's the but, yeah, we were, I mean and it is takes a special like, I and Robert really, obviously, appreciate the mean, just like the because the company's nothing at that point, you know? And, like, and, again, I know vividly where I was anyway, Robert. I don't know if you remember where we were, but on kinda Jess's little back deck there as, you know, you'd obviously had some questions. I felt we kinda knocked down all the questions, and you're like, alright.
[Bryan Can trill] [37:46] I guess I'm I guess I'm in. I don't know.
[Adam Levinthal] [37:48] I know. But it's like raising money, certainly, it gives you that feel of tangibility, but it's when other people are now saying you know, people you've worked with, in Robert's case for, you know, 5, 10 years or whatever, saying, yeah, okay, I'm in. Let's do it. If it's an it's a new kind of reality setting in about the the the venture you're heading down.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:11] Yes. Yeah. And not too long thereafter. And I want to get Robert back to dog patch in a second. But, and I'll, I'll, I'll definitely drop this photo into the chat because I've got, I mean, Robert Rupert.
[Robert Mustachio] [38:24] Is it the whiteboard? Yeah. Because I was just saying, if you have that, you should drop that in. So I feel like that's that's emblematic of the discussion we have. It's like, ah, like, let's drop these different pieces on the whiteboard.
[Robert Mustachio] [38:34] And then we go back and forth. Like, oh, let's talk about what's connected. You're like, do you just me fully connected? And
[Bryan Can trill] [38:39] of course,
[Robert Mustachio] [38:39] you are right. But
[Bryan Can trill] [38:41] Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it was really great because they it is, we had all of these different thought, so Robert is we've got all this kind of different elements of the system. And Robert is like trying to figure out like, okay, what are the kind of the connections between, you know, the root of trust and, you know, what's the the've got the switch, we've got all these different elements. And I'm like, you're this is going to be a fully connected graph.
[Bryan Can trill] [39:05] And, and sure enough, it is after not too long, if it was. So yeah. I'll, I'll, I'll drop in that photo, Robert, but it's, it's definitely a great one. But do you mind just to go back to Adam's question, like, what was Dogwatch? What were the problems with the cable with respect to Dogwatch?
[Robert Mustachio] [39:23] Yeah. So I think, to really start to get at Dogwatch, I actually had to rewind to actually back to Phish works and AK, which was the appliance kit. So there was a lot of hardware software integration we did there around manageability and serviceability in particular, and if you're ever fortunate enough to use one of those, you know, there were a lot of things it did around just like, hey, detecting drive failure, indicating that, blinking an LED, and even being able to blink the LED, tell you where it was, already started resilvering, you know, swapped in spares, sent out emails, did, you know, contacted support potentially get to get, replacement parts shipped, etcetera. And, you know, that was kind of at a single box level. And really and that was really 2,007, 2008.
[Robert Mustachio] [40:17] Yeah. Then you kind of fast-forward and, you know, it's, you know, even 2013, 2014, and the ability to kind of deal with that data centre management at scale, you know, kind of getting to that warehouse style computing, is really limited unless you're one of the huge players. You know, you're making an LED blink reliably. Surprisingly challenging. Actually, even I mean, honestly, in half times, even after you figured it out, actually, you've learned that the server was built incorrectly and a bunch of things, to drive, you know, to the basic SaaS expander or maybe the drive, it's like the drive backplate cables were swapped.
[Robert Mustachio] [41:00] So what you thought was drive 0 was drive 8.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:05] And so you were literally lighting the wrong LED. No, I'm not.
[Robert Mustachio] [41:08] The wrong LED. So,
[Adam Levinthal] [41:11] Hey. AE drive failed. Come on. I don't know.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:13] Exactly. Actually, like, a drive failed. So I want you to remove one of the good ones. Oh my god. Did do that help?
[Bryan Can trill] [41:21] That helps. Exactly.
[Robert Mustachio] [41:23] But also all this had to be done very manually and, you know, our the joint operations team put a lot of work into dealing with and managing that and dealing with the kind of lack of features. But, you know, the serviceability and manageability story which, you know, worked good at, you know, the 1 to 2 system or if you had multiple systems, you know, at Fish Works we really wanted to bring, together, and you actually go see if I actually have this deck still somewhere.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:55] Yeah. The dog patch deck. We've got the dot. Yeah. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [41:57] Yeah. Yeah. It's an it's
[Robert Mustachio] [41:58] remind myself what else is what else was actually in there. But, yeah, I think this is actually where you know, I think the big thing is, you know, there are a lot of fights between what's being done by the OS and what's being done by the BMC in those systems. Because basically the BMC is basically where there's a bunch of value add from the vendor, for varying degrees of value.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:24] Oh my god. Raikou just almost came out my nose.
[Adam Levinthal] [42:27] I know. I could those air quotes are just like screaming.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:31] Oh, God. Yeah. I needed a little bit of a warning on that one.
[Robert Mustachio] [42:39] Yeah. And just the features of that, the added had were challenging.
[Bryan Can trill] [42:46] Robert's being very forgiving to not mention this, but this is when we first heard about Redfish. For whatever reason, I somehow got I'm like, I think this can really help us. I'm like, Redfish, this seems fascinating. This is going to solve exactly this kind of problem that you mentioned. And I remember you being like, I don't think you understand what this is.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:07] Like, that's not gonna you are no. No. Sorry. This is taking an HTTP layer and smearing it on top of the same garbage. This is No.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:16] This is not going to help us at all. This is And that, of course, sort of, I was like, no way better. I'm sorry.
[Adam Levinthal] [43:21] But, like, that is the marketing of it. Right? Like, that that is the Yes. Ostensible value add of Redfish. Just It's
[Robert Mustachio] [43:28] it's its totally divorced from reality. And it's gotten slightly better than when it first came out as an empty schema. But, yeah, as I'm trying to look through this to see some of the other things, like, obviously, you know, some of the classics, dealing with firmware, you know, the different kind of architectural challenges we had there. We actually were thinking about how do we eliminate, the BIOS in UEFI and basically just do a, you know, a small, you know, basically let the bootloader take care of all the bunch of stuff, you know, that for us was Pixie at the time. So it's just like how do we basically just get out of these different layers that are differently broken?
[Robert Mustachio] [44:15] I think one of this is during that as we were writing this, this is one of those times when we had, I think it was like a, oh, like a Dell, maybe like Haswell Aero Server, and after we typed reboot it would just hang in the BIOS. Like after we, you know, like we just reboot like Oh my gosh. And it would only happen on a warm reboot. And, there's a lot of back and forth of being like, well, it's your fault. You know, don't tell
[Bryan Can trill] [44:44] me about this.
[Robert Mustachio] [44:45] And it's like and you're trying to, like, you know, less some of us would say it less politely, you know. I think, yeah, this is where we had good cop, bad cop, and psycho cop. But, you know, it's like, hey, the BIOS has just, like, erased all of our program text, and it's taken over. How is it, you know, and its job is to restore it from an arbitrary state, so how exactly is it our fault? But actually that that in of itself is a lesson as to one of the things that we actually did in oxide, which is getting rid of 2 different reboot paths, to actually simplify the system and streamline, streamline things.
[Robert Mustachio] [45:23] So that is, you know, in a standard system, if you type reboot, it's not going to do a full post. It's not going to go reset everything. UEFI is gonna kinda be clever and or the real reality is that the CPU actually isn't going to erase everything. So even if you reassert the reset line, if you're in this ACPI s 5 state, there's a bunch of state that stays across that. So that also means there's 2 different path 2 different initialization paths.
[Robert Mustachio] [45:52] Some of this data you'll see is in some of these data you'll see is in some of these data you'll see is described as being in certain power wells or as sticky across resets. And so we're just like, let's have none of that.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:01] Let's let's
[Robert Mustachio] [46:01] kill all power. And that actually made it easier for us to build a more reliable system with actually less, you know, with less code pads to actually think about because we can actually say there is no warm reset, there is no way there. Then at the end of the day, what that means for customers is that, hey, it works more reliably more of the time. Because a lot of the challenges here is that you have all these different code paths, and it's hard to actually test reset in a bazillion different ways. Or what does it mean to do a warm reset when, you know, you've been up for 2 years versus you've been up for 30 seconds versus, you know, I've hot swapped all these drives umpteen times versus, yeah, I've done nothing, so I've just been up for, you know, 2 minutes.
[Robert Mustachio] [46:41] So it really got us out of, that problem once we ironed out some of the bugs.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:47] Yeah. What's really so and this is again, this is ad hoc side. This is not something I dropped the dog patch deck, from Joy ant, into the chat, Robert. But the circa 2014 is when I've got it. So Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:00] Yeah. The, and actually, I have actually 2014 on there. And you, I mean, you will see a lot of the oxide vision there, in terms of illuminating both Bias and UEFI. Much easier said than done. And Well,
[Robert Mustachio] [47:18] no one took us
[Bryan Can trill] [47:19] up on
[Robert Mustachio] [47:19] it, so
[Bryan Can trill] [47:20] No one took us up on it. And so, I mean, I mean, a bunch of things. I mean, at 1, I mean, I think this is the kind of thing that nobody disagreed with us, that this is the right thing to go do, but it just seemed like, God, it seems really, really, really, really hard. AMD thought it was impossible. And it was in order for us to I mean, it's this is the part of the part that is not well documented.
[Bryan Can trill] [47:47] Oh, and I mean, do you want to describe some of your trials and tribulations about, like, how did we do this? How did we pull off this? Because, I mean, I think this is I mean, unfortunately, like, we had AMD's cooperation at the level of AMD was not gonna, like, get in our way. Right? I mean, AMD is, like, what you're doing is so hard, we don't know how to help you, but we're also, like, we're supportive of this effort in the abstract, which is extremely important.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:14] But it's also like not hugely, hugely helpful. How did, how do we go about on that particular problem?
[Adam Levinthal] [48:21] They're help they're helping by not actively sabotaging us is what it sounds like.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:26] Listen. That's I, sorry. Like, what they get What's that? They're good. That's ahead of the class for you.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:34] That is that's that's terrific. They actually, you know, they did actually one better in a very important way. And this is why people may have seen the OpenSSL effort from AMD, around Open Silicon initialization. We are very, very supportive of that effort even though we're not using it at all because it was tacking in AMD. AMD was going in a lot of the same directions that we were going.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:58] So it actually but that didn't like, what we were doing was far earlier than open before open cell was in really just kinda still in its kinda earliest phases. So we really we're we're on our own. And, Robert, talk about I mean, this surely, the work that you did there to understand Giza has got a rank as one of the your most challenging projects in terms of understanding a foreign code base?
[Robert Mustachio] [49:25] Yeah. And I'd say it's its even more challenging as one that we mean, at least at the time, there was really no good way for me to build or run or instrument. So it was really that was really all about code inspection.
[Adam Levinthal] [49:40] Robert, can you talk about what a Giza is and, like, where Yeah. Or, you know, what we needed to do, in that domain?
[Robert Mustachio] [49:47] Yeah. Yeah, Adam. That's a good question. So, Aisha is effectively one part of AMD's boot software. So it contains both the, you know, both the all the kind of binary blobs at the PSP or other kind of hidden cores run, but also really contains a lot of all the x86 initialization things.
[Robert Mustachio] [50:12] So, you know, how does how do memory mappings get set up? You know, how do various pieces of the data fabric of, you know, CPU initialization, you know, turning on and, you know, when you start there's only 1 CPU turned on and even though operating systems have this, you know, traditional IPI dance, there's a bunch of other stuff you have to do in advance to start this. You know, the AMD SoCs, like others, you know, has a 128 PCIe lanes, but those PCIe lanes can be carved up into arbitrary different slots depending on what board you have. So how do you communicate that? So, ALISA, which looks like what does it stand for?
[Robert Mustachio] [50:53] AMD Generic Encapsulated Software Architecture.
[Bryan Can trill] [50:57] Only what are the letters and acronyms?
[Robert Mustachio] [51:02] So that that whole bit is designed and ties into a separate, these days, UEFI code base. So it and of itself is not a complete is not the complete picture. You also need it's built up as a series of UEFI modules that runs in the PEI and DX and DAY, phases, which are different phases of boot and still means that you need, like, a tank core or other UEFI implementation to kind of fit alongside it. You know, it will do anything and everything from setting up I squared C devices to, you know, that's where SM BIOS tables are created, to just, you know It's presuming where
[Bryan Can trill] [51:56] ACPI tables are created as well. Right? I mean ACPI tables
[Robert Mustachio] [51:58] are created there too. And just a bunch of a bunch of a bunch of stuff. So, yeah, so that that was an effort where
[Bryan Can trill] [52:07] And the so it also should be added, Robert, that it so you're like, okay. So you got this, like, early platform initialization thing. So you have to, like, follow all this the code flow through that. It's like, yeah, about the code flow, can you describe what makes following the code flow through here absolutely brutal?
[Robert Mustachio] [52:29] Oh, yeah. So as I said, these are all UEFI's designed in a series of different modules, and they all basically rely on different callbacks firing. So because these modules are kinda coming up and loading in probably somewhat defined but arbitrary orders, they'll often wait, you know, so before I begin, like, the PCIe module or the bio module might start loading, but it's going to register a callback that fires when all these different, PPIs, which is a UEFI term, are provided and, lots of them, and there's not like, or at least the things we had access to. There was no clear map of, like, this is the expected ordering of these different, these different sets of services. So it's like, when does the logical SoC service begin?
[Robert Mustachio] [53:27] When does the memory map service start? When is it blocked on? So a lot of it is basically trying to come up with this, effectively callback driven control flow, and trying to understand what is that just by purely reading, which is not straightforward and definitely not always correct.
[Bryan Can trill] [53:47] Well, and so, like, unlike with the kind of other things, when, like, when you went into the page tables to understand that, to understand the VM system, You're armed with the source code, and you also have some tools that you can use to actually observe the running dynamic system. You don't have any of that here. You have Or very, very little. I mean, I guess the thing that you could, I mean, you you you can go dork with some of these attributes, these APC tokens, and you can, I guess, watch how this, and I guess you did do that because I know at least once you're like, could you go over to this machine and see what's happening? Because I was in the office and you were not.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:27] And I'm like, this machine yeah. I was going to say that.
[Robert Mustachio] [54:31] So that was a very different, yeah. That that was, dealing with the hitting one of the hidden cores.
[Bryan Can trill] [54:37] Oh, right, right, right. That was actually sending messages to Right, right. This is on our own software. We're actually you were not actually trying to understand their software. You're actually running your own software.
[Robert Mustachio] [54:44] Yeah. Yeah. That wasn't our software. We're trying to send a message to the hidden core, which is responsible for PCIe initialization. We're also trying to send it a data structure that has, you know, all the mapping of all of our lanes and all of this fun stuff.
[Robert Mustachio] [54:56] And then we send a message and, as you know, then wait a while and surprise, it came back to the bootloader prompt, which is never a good sign.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:09] Never a good sign.
[Robert Mustachio] [55:10] The kernel's up, so like, in theory, if I had, you know, in order to take a page fault or a double fault, you know, you'd trap into KMDB and, you know, you could debug. And that's when I started asking Brian, like, going off the system and, you know,
[Bryan Can trill] [55:24] that's the thing. Powering off. Yes. Yeah. It was if it was like you were putting a message in a there were a lot of, like, messages in the bottle.
[Bryan Can trill] [55:31] Where you see, you're putting a message in a bottle, you're sending it out to one of these other hidden cores, on the dye. And in this case, you're putting the message in the bottle, chucking it towards the island, and then the island was somehow, like, bursting into flames and sinking into the ocean. You're, like, I don't send that one, I guess. Like, okay.
[Robert Mustachio] [55:49] Like, okay. That's a that's
[Bryan Can trill] [55:50] a no, thank you on that message. Let me go meet you.
[Robert Mustachio] [55:53] The island launched global therm ore nuclear war. So we
[Bryan Can trill] [55:56] don't know. He is actually like, woah. Okay. And it's brutal.
[Robert Mustachio] [56:03] Yeah. And that one came down to a missing right to one of the registers in effectively the bio, which is Northridge IO, which has parts of what the memory map are. So we were basically trying to do DMA to an address, and it didn't have a was missing information that told it whether that was DRAM or memory mapped, IO. And so it probably hit some internal error. And, you know, especially since then we didn't have good observer, but we were still working on a reference platform.
[Robert Mustachio] [56:45] So we didn't have our service processor, our other stuff there. So we couldn't see if there were, you know, some of the low level, certs were being fired that would trigger something on a pin. Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [56:56] We had nothing.
[Adam Levinthal] [56:57] So how on earth did you do this? Like, what was it just back to the code and reading more? Like it just
[Robert Mustachio] [57:04] Yeah. Well, and I think this also gets to, some of the tooling stuff. So we had actually built up a bunch of random, demons in KMDB, because there was no user LAN, so it's all Right. All in the kernel debugger to basically be able to read and write some of these, different register spaces. So there's the system management network is one of them, and then the data fabric is another one.
[Robert Mustachio] [57:28] And having that tooling be able to do that just let us kind of do some inspection. You know, we use this in other problems because we could that is something that we could use on our without the oxide architecture. So we actually would sometimes compare and contrast that to what we saw on i86 PC, on a standard PC. But for this one, it was really code inspection, double and triple checking, rereading, getting it wrong a lot, and I don't know. There was a bit of a yeah, a lot of the time it was kind of a blur.
[Robert Mustachio] [58:03] I'll be honest. But,
[Adam Levinthal] [58:04] were the, were the iteration loops on this just like, you know, 5, 10, 20 minutes? I mean, it sounds like
[Bryan Can trill] [58:13] Depends. It's a lot. It, I think you I yeah. Go ahead. It has.
[Robert Mustachio] [58:18] The actual boot and, like, load time isn't that bad. It's really more of the mental
[Bryan Can trill] [58:24] Yeah. The
[Robert Mustachio] [58:24] mental effort there, I'd say. Just, like, knowing what to do next. I mean,
[Bryan Can trill] [58:27] you even love to have so much to iterate on that you're blocked on the iteration loop, which yes, is like 20 minutes, but like that's not even the problem. Like, you have the despair loop, which is actually much longer, which is
[Adam Levinthal] [58:40] Oh, yeah. I mean, you're I'm factoring in the trip to the therapist and then the drive back home and right on.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:45] That's right. Well, and I do wonder on some of that stuff because in Robert, you so frequently, you tackle these problems where the stakes are high. Like if we don't resolve this problem, we've got a serious issue. And you you you know, you're you've always got like a very cool head when you go to debunk these. Do you have like is it mean, do you just have like a innate sense of confidence?
[Bryan Can trill] [59:10] Are you not as scared as I am? I'm terrified. Are you not terrified?
[Robert Mustachio] [59:16] No. Don't worry. I'm plenty terrified. And I think part of makes you feel better. You know, I think part of it is also that I actually am never doing this alone no matter where I've been at.
[Robert Mustachio] [59:26] Even if Yeah. Other folks don't necessarily have all the background, You know, that time, you know, Keith and I were working together a lot. But, you know, other folks would sit there, help listen to things. It's been true when I've been bugging up and down across the stack, whether it's software, whether it's hardware. You know, there's it is really is a team effort.
[Robert Mustachio] [59:52] And even though some of the debugging is there, you know, is sometimes a solitary activity at first, you know, a lot of the other pieces like writing it up, having you know, especially Keith and me when we were doing Bring Up, I think the fact that we were working together, even though we're tackling different parts, means we would write up different things in some of our bug reports, review each other's notes, ask questions of one another, and the act of asking questions and being forced to answer them, is there. You know, that's that's been the same thing that's true when we've been bugging, you know, some of the t six stuff which, Nathaniel and I were working on recently or, you know, other things that, you know, we're we're doing that are up and down across the stack is, you know, I think the first thing is that, you know, you're not alone, and you have the expertise or just even the different perspectives of all of your colleagues. And I think that's that's really invaluable in and of itself Because they'll ask you questions that might make you think differently or prompt different thinking.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:00:55] And, you know, it is can never be just, you know, yes, sometimes you need some time when you kind of you get off the world and just kind of stare at things. But really it is working with others, I think, that ends up being necessary to kind of get through some of these harder bits because that's, I think, partly what helps you get through it. Because, you know, if I'm stuck, and I see Keith making progress, then that helps there. Or if I see us making progress, you know, on the board work or higher up in the, you know, the control point or other parts of the product or, you know, down below, then that that kinda helps, you know, motivate you to kinda keep going and, you know, it's not all bad.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:34] But Right. Well and I think that I mean, it's because it's part of what is so kind of remarkable, but the way you are able to approach the system is you do oscillate from these the absolute lowest layers of implementation. Like really, stuff that is often, like, does not have a lot of eyes on it. I mean, like, the deepest aspects of system implementation, ones that are absolutely required for system correctness and liveness. And then you're able to oscillate back up to this really much broader view.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:08] I mean, I need to drop a link to rfv63 in here. But in terms of, like, you know, just so at the same time, you're kind of like in the kind of the deepest possible muck in the lowest levels of the system in terms of early boot. You're also, like, at the whiteboard in terms of conceiving of what the kind of the networking interfaces we want to have for customers and the way we kind of think of that problem. I mean, could you speak to that a little bit? Because I mean, just that ability to oscillate, I just feel is extraordinary, and it's been such an asset, I think, to your teammates so many times over.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:02:51] Sure. I can try. I mean, I think there's a lot of stuff that's just virtue of, you know, being at the company early. There wasn't really a lot of other folks to do stuff.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:02:59] Yes.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:03:01] So, you know, there there there is a lot of stuff where it's just like, hey, how do we start thinking about this? And I think for me one of the things that's there is that, you know, you'll see in that actually R5063 was like the last of a way like the last of a set of networking docs, It really started from, you know, higher level product comparison kind of feature use cases, user networking API that we wanted in another doc. And then with those that in mind, how do we start building up the lower level stuff?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:03:33] And I know we go to this metaphor a lot, Adam, but I'm sorry. These are the Federalist Papers for Oxide. These are these that these early RFTs from Robert.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:03:43] But I think a lot of it comes back to you know, for some of these things are things I've been thinking about for a while so that helps. You know, even though RP 60 3 there, like, there's a lot of retrospective in on past attempts there or goals or, you know, things that worked well, things that didn't work well, you know, what we learned from paper reading and other stuff. And, you know, I think coming back to the dog you know if you go back to that dog patch deck in 2014, there's a lot of the high level goals and, you know, I'd say experience and kind of usability goals. You know, are still kind of, you know, are things that are kind of at the always in the back of my head. So I think that that that's always helped to kinda anchor that or kind of raise questions about, you know, what does this future look like?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:04:29] What does it mean? How does it actually tie back to those goals that we have? And then I think sometimes Yeah. Sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:36] Go for it. No. No. Go ahead. Sorry.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:04:38] Go ahead.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:04:39] I sometimes think, you know, you need to work being able to get you know, well, maybe it's a little bit of thrashing, and sometimes you need to kinda really focus on one or the other. It helps to kinda for me at least, to go to different things. Because sometimes some of these small bugs are, you know, small bugs are kinda low level details. You can kinda really just focus in on it, but having the broader context of how that fits into the system is helpful or a good distraction, from that. So I don't know.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:05:10] It's not that It's not perfect answer.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:12] Yeah. I mean, no. No. That's a great answer. And I think it's I mean, it is really I mean, I and I have always believed, I mean, out of you YouTube, this is, like, our a unifying belief, I would say, across the company, is that details really, really matter.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:05:25] And that you that if you want to understand things at the highest level of a system and understand how these big pieces go together, you really need to understand low level details in order to be because if you don't, that's where you get this kind of emergent behaviour that really runs contrary to goals you have as a system. So I think it's really, really important. But, I mean, your that that your ability to do it, Robert, has just been extraordinary. And the thing that I want to ask you about because as you say, like, okay, it's, you know, it's early, so you're putting together the kind of, you know, as our John Jay, you're putting together the Federalist Papers of Oxide, But we are then adding people to the company that are able to go pick up pieces of that. And, you know, you've always been, I think, terrific about really enabling other people to go pick up these pieces.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:18] I don't think anyone has ever felt like, oh, god. I can't touch networking because, you know, I can't, I can't touch this aspect of the system. Because you're always like, no, please. Someone, please come on in. Like, water's warm.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:06:27] I would love to help you ramp you up and help you understand what I understand so you can go tackle this. Can you speak to that a little bit as well? Because I think that's that's part of what has been has enabled you to be so effective.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:06:40] Yeah. I mean, I think you're right. I think there's a there's a lot to be said that, you know, I think the important thing is that as you go from, you know, the first couple of us that hire to 10 to 20 to 30, you know, and you continue to grow, is how do you help, teach other people what's going on? And how do you help ramp them up? Because I think that's equally important because yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:07:00] And, the amount that one person can do is bounded. And, sure, you can, you know, work overtime or, you know, push yourself a bit, but that will never be as effective as actually, you know, getting more people together. So I think that to me is kind of an is an important question of how do you help teach people? How do you help them learn? How do you try to be helpful and help, you know, let folks be productive, and share knowledge?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:07:33] Because otherwise, yeah, I don't know. So I think that's the thing.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:07:38] We got into this we got into this in the RFP episode that you joined us for. I mean but, obviously, I mean, you are our most prolific RFP author, and, you know, I think it's been great for people to kind of people to join the company and are actually also I've had I'm sure you've had this too, Adam, where, like, people who have not yet joined the company, like, Robert, you're famous to people who have not yet joined the company, because there's, like, I've read this guy's work. I want to meet this person. Like, this is I feel like I know their voice. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:08] And it's
[Robert Mustachio] [01:08:10] Yeah. But I think that's you know, having the docs is good, but it's not it's not it's necessary, but not sufficient for that because I think,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:17] right now,
[Robert Mustachio] [01:08:18] I don't wanna just show up and just be like, hey, here you go. Please read this, you know, a 100000 word dissertation, you know, 200000 words and, you know, come up with a summary and, you know, go from there. Because I think that I think that's, that can be very overwhelming. The same way, you know, this wasn't all written, you know, Rome wasn't built in a day. This wasn't all written in a day.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:08:39] So, I think it's important also to figure out, you know, how do you kind of introduce these topics, kind of, you know, get to more and more detail. And then I think a lot of it is also just not being really willing to if people ask for, hey, how does this work? You know, being willing to put together an ad hoc presentation, whether it's formally with slides or not on how does this you know, what's going on. You know, this is, another example that is, you know, colleague was asking about, you know, hey. I'm trying to get more into some of the PCIe hot plug stuff.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:09:09] Like, can you help me understand how this actually all fits together with this? Because, you know, the PCI spec is long and, involved in not, you know, the easiest thing to read. So, you know, the answer to that is, you know, yeah, let's find a time that does this and, you know, get into it. I think that's that's partly how you do that and then helping make sure folks feel that it's okay to ask those questions too is equally important, which, you know, is always an ongoing effort to kind of build those reports because, you can't, you can't necessarily know someone's struggling, so all you can do is try to be open and willing to answer stuff and, try to be helpful.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:49] Right. Yeah. We well, and I think I mean, just getting into to PCIe because, I mean, it's another total someone in the chat. PCIe is a plug. Yes.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:59] Oh, yes. I mean, another and it because it feels like, you know, this is true for all these domains where it is an entire universe of complexity. And, I mean, having, you know, helping people navigate it. And then I've always felt that, like, you know, you're so charitable with your own knowledge. It definitely, like, I think, I feel anyway, that you inspire people to be like, oh, yeah, I can learn this stuff too.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:27] Like, I can actually this stuff is actually learnable. This is, it feels like it's very dense, and I don't understand it yet, but I just need to I, I can do it. I can actually learn this stuff, which is very inspiring because there's a lot to go learn. Do you want to talk a little bit about like the just as a very concrete example, I'm not sure if you want to take the the recent T6 problem and or this recent algorithm problem and or both as I kind of I just say another actually, no? Before we do that, actually, yes or go ahead?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:11:03] No. Thank you. Go ahead.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:11:06] Actually, let me back up because I actually I have a different question I want to ask you. And then we'll get to those. Because one of the things that I definitely appreciate about, again, the way you think about the system is, and I know other people appreciated it as well, is your ability to seemingly see around corners. And the number of times I will like to hit an issue, and then I go into an old RFD of yours where it's like, oh my, like, you know, I like to look under my chair and like, oh my God, Robert has already written a dissertation on this exact issue that I've grappled with and that I even read at the time, but didn't really appreciate. How do you, I mean, because I feel it's like a real, I mean, it's a tremendous gift for lack of a better word, to be able to kind of project a system into the future and anticipate some of the issues that we're going to hit on a system that's not yet built.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:01] Do you have any tricks for doing that? I mean, what is that how do you do it?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:12:06] I wish I could claim work. I wish I could omnipotence or something like that, but that clearly, something like that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:13] You make a lot of sense though if you did. I mean, like, you know, now would be the time.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:12:17] Yeah. I mean, I think, that's a good question. I think a chunk of this I picked up from just working with Keith over the years.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:25] Yeah. Keith's also very, very good at it.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:12:27] There's a lot there. But, I think this sometimes gets back to the earlier kind of code review is really trying to ask why. And really trying to understand how does this fit into the system? How is someone going to do this? Or if someone wants to do X, what else does that mean they need to be able to do?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:12:47] Or how does it work? For some of this stuff that we're seeing around, I think some of it's cheating that, you know, we've been thinking about for over a decade. Dogwatch is 14, that's 2025.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:59] Yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:13:00] So someone's just had a long time to just marinate in the back of the head with just different experiences. And I think part of that also is just a bit of just, paying attention to how are folks using things, how are operators using things? I don't know. I wish I had a better answer for you there so I could
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:21] No, no, no, no.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:13:22] I think a lot of it is just trying to list a lot of it's listening, and then a lot of just digging and really needing to understand the low level details before you can kinda go and make the high level answer and how the 2 inform one another.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:40] Well, I also think that, like, this is where the amount of time you spent in the details just really helps informs your engineering wisdom. I mean, just to give you a really concrete example of your wisdom and how we benefited from it. Recently, we had a Murat PowerShell issue, that Eric Austin and our team had done a terrific job debugging. And, Eric is like, I think this is a control loop issue, and I think we're going to need we're going to get a firmware drop from Murat that fixes this. And I remember thinking like, wow, that is I mean, in some ways, that'd be great, and this is a problem that we definitely needed to resolve.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:18] Murat did a great job, resolved it. And fortunately, we had an mechanism that we had not built anything on top of. We had not built any of the software. But the the actual PowerShell itself had a mechanism to update its software. And that's something that you really believed in strongly when we were looking at PowerShell selection.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:39] I just think it's like it's an example of what I mean of like where, you know, not just evaluating kind of the artifact you have in front of you, but like what's gonna what could potentially go wrong with this where we would need to be able to update the firmware on a PSU that is not, you know, it's its not necessarily something that the first thing that a lot of people would think about. And, you know, you kinda have to have a certain kind of quantity of scar tissue, to really be able to think about it. And for many years, we didn't need it, you know, for many years. It would have felt like, well, I don't know, maybe this firmware always does work. But no, of course, we do need it.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:15:18] And what we were able to build on top of it, it's all worked, and we were able to upgrade that The firmware was terrific. But it was a great example of you really saw around a very important corner.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:15:29] Yeah. And I think that often just comes back to, some let's say just scar tissue and experience. Right? Some of it was we've had times when we couldn't upgrade firmware, or we couldn't get, you know, we didn't have the tools to or even get firmware updates, and so we've just been burnt by that, over the years. And so, I do think there's also just, you know, if you really want to think about how you approach and think about firmware and just, you know, just the same way it's like software and just that it's not this, while it can be very hard to understand just because of the specifics of the way, you know, you're working with vendors, you know, obviously, if you just get a binary blob, it's hard to really get into there.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:16:23] But, you know, it's a thing that can fail and needs to be updated just like anything else. So, yeah. And I suspect that, you know, if we probably go back to dog patch, we probably have some commentary on the firmware that we were dealing with, and just the operational problems there and trying to figure out how do you get to a better model, you know, where even is all the firmware? If it's there, assume something's going to go wrong or if there's an EEPROM that has data, assume it, you know, it has to be flash, You know, we're going to need to flash it and then, you know, once you start thinking about in some portions, then it turns out that that's actually true in, you know, a lot more stuff. You know, there's nothing that's just specific to I think a lot of it is also just trying to take what are the things that you learn from one area and don't just how can you apply them to others?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:17:15] And sometimes that'll be right, and sometimes, you know, that'll misfire, and maybe not be quite the right starting approach. But I think it lets you kind of ask other questions and helps you kind of think about that. So, you know, for some of us, it's like, you know, no one would say, ah, we should never be able to upgrade the software and the product. So Right. You know, I the same would kind of be true.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:17:39] It's like, well, if the only way I know, someone comes back to you, you know, what's the service experience? Okay. Let's say we did have to do this. If there was no way to do online, to upgrade the firmware, the rectifier through software then that means I have to send a tech out to every DC of every customer, and that the pull went out one at a time and do this and that's just not you know, that works when your N is small, and it's, you know, a bad day for someone, but it really doesn't scale. So that's that's another big part of just, you know, where are these things that are you know what would be the remediation if it fails?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:18:17] And just asking yourself that question for all these because I mean, as a result, like, we did I mean, the fact that we did our own PowerShell controller, which is not necessarily the first thing that I think other people would think about. It's like and, I mean, Murat to their I would say Murat, some other PowerShell, manufacturers had different opinions about us doing that. And, it was a real tribute part of the reason that we have a great relationship with Miranda is because they were willing to accommodate the fact that we're like, no, we're chucking out your PowerShell control, we want to do our own. And that was a very, very, very good decision because it'll, it gave us control over and not just the ability to update the firmware, but also that too now, but just the level of observability into a part of the system that doesn't generally get that kind of observability.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:19:05] Yeah. And I think what helped is, again, you know, from the kind of RFTs or docs building up on top of one of another, I think it's something like RFT 82, which is the one by kind of operator design principles and facilities, for operation, you know, has something about firmware upgrade in it. So then as you're going out and kind of doing sending these questions out to different vendors, you can go back and say, okay. What are the things I need to think about from there? You know, what are the kind of the key things?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:19:32] You know, how does it reply to things? Even just not just firmware, but, you know, when a rectifier, we'll just pick on the PowerShell, fails, identify which slot it is, what serial number it was, where is it, and how does that turn back into just different features that you need, and how do you tie that into basically different operator stories? And then you know, that same thing is true of failing disks. Right? I think it's much easier for us to think about, you know, a disk fails, I need to pull it, I want to blink the right slot.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:20:07] Well, the same is going to be true of a rectifier. The same is going to be true of a fan. The same is true of, you know, a transceiver. So, you know, there's a lot more similarity in some of these things even though there are differences.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:23] Yeah. So I'm going to try to make r f d 82 public while we're in the podcast. So RFT 82 is not currently public, but, I think it's it's an it's a very good one to, to make public, because that yeah, that really, it just it is captures, I think, an important aspect of your own approach and your kind of you're you're thinking about the way we ask different questions of different parts of the system. Yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:20:52] Check your, Steve. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:20:53] As I
[Robert Mustachio] [01:20:54] and this isn't also, you know, there are a lot of different folks who write feedback on there, and there's a lot of different work there. So it's not again, this is another one of those things that's not just, you know, a single person doing it. You know? There's you know, we're we're taking these ideas, you know, urging colleagues to kinda get feedback on them, explore it more, get different perspectives, make sure we're communicating it well, that, you know, that makes it better. So it's not, you know I
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:28] think I've just made it too public. So I Yeah. Yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:21:34] You can find this,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:35] you can find the other Oh, it's a bubble. Exactly. I mean, definitely made something public. So, let's hope it's RFD 82. You say you may or may that is gone may take a second for the is, like, us.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:21:46] This is a terrific RFD API. So we may that may take a second, but, hopefully, people will be able to see that at some point real soon. Okay. So the, and I think, Robert, an a82 is a great one to in terms of your again, your own kind of disposition. So maybe to kind of just dive back down into some of these specific technical details of things that you've been dealing with, like, recently, because I mean, the the t six issue is a fascinating issue.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:19] I'm not sure if you're willing to get into the weeds on that one, but I do think of that as a very concrete and I how much do you know about this one, Adam? Have you,
[Adam Levinthal] [01:22:29] only Robert was describing a bit of it to me, maybe a week or 2 ago as I heard a lot of t 6 buzz? But for, t 6 is the NIC silicon that we're using in the next generation server. Right?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:22:43] Current.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:44] In the current generation.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:22:45] Current generation. Pardon me.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:47] Yeah. So this is, in Gen worth.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:22:50] Yeah. So we do something a little weird, with the Nick. So there's something
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:55] that should In stark contrast to the rest of the system where we are just, like,
[Adam Levinthal] [01:22:59] down the fairway, the normal
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:01] Down the fairway. Exactly. It's like we also are a little weird with the NIC. So welcome to the oxide.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:23:07] So We've
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:08] gone our own way.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:23:09] One of the things that we are really trying to make sure we could do, because the NIC has its own firmware, and configuration, which changes a bunch of different settings and things there, is we wanted to make sure we could validate slash attach that information. And we went through a bunch of different ways as a group to figure out, you know, how could we do that. And what we settled was that the NIC actually has its own manufacturing mode built in, so which is useful because some of this config file are things like, you know, what PCI you know, it's a bunch of information for the PCI E series or, you know, describes things about how Ethernet should work. You know? What do you have I squared c for transceivers?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:23:53] Do you have different phis? Etcetera. So this information is all very critical for the NIC to work, but,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:01] you know,
[Robert Mustachio] [01:24:01] we didn't want to have just a one time factory programming process here because what if we need to update it? What if something got wrong? You know, how do we deal with it? So we end up using this feature, the NIC called manufacturing mode, which basically, has the NIC boot out of an internal mask ROM. It doesn't enable Ethernet.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:24:22] It doesn't load any firmware, that would run on some of the cores internally. You know, it is doesn't do a lot of stuff, but it gives us access to the hardware blocks for the Nick's own, EEPROM and Spy Flash. So basically what this means is rather than basically creating a complex mix system to change ownership of these devices, like we have to for the host Spy Flash, here we basically read and validate this through the NIC in its manufacturing mode. So what this means is that every time the server turns on
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:59] booted. Importantly, like, this means we are able to do this. We don't have this is not the SP running in some context before the host CPU is up. This is the host CPU is able to do this while it itself is up.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:25:10] So the way we've rigged this up is that on the board, we have a GPO strapped. So the system, the NIC always shows up in manufacturing mode. Then because we have power control over every device, we can basically validate all this and effectively, you know, we don't necessarily turn off all the power here. We kind of reassert the reset of the device and then basically boot it back up into mission what they call mission mode.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:25:35] And so the way that normal folks would program their NIC is like having a little, like, a Nor flash or whatever kind of strapped to it that had this configuration information, and it loaded up autonomously. Is that
[Robert Mustachio] [01:25:49] so, yeah, the way mission mode works is exactly that way, Adam. They basically have a little spy nor flash, a little easy prop, and it reads from that. And so, we have those same things. It's just that in manufacturing mode, it's basically bootstrap it. We just do it through the NIC.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:26:05] And, you know, on a normal on a normal PCI card, this is a little jumper that's there for the factory done once. And then you update this you update the can update the firmware from the NIC while it's live. But,
[Adam Levinthal] [01:26:19] right. And as you were saying, like, doing this every time allows us to put known attested valid, you know, bits there as opposed to having this question of what's what's living persistently. Yes. And did, you know, some nefarious actor manages to wedge some bad bits down there?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:26:41] It also solves the factory and the egg problem. Like, how do you get the initial version on there? It's just like Right. There never it doesn't matter if there ever was something there or not. We just always thought we think should be there.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:26:50] Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:26:51] Gotcha. And this is like, oh, having the recovery path be the primary path, Adam. It's like this is so you don't you don't have this kind of path that you, like, rarely execute that when you needed to execute doesn't work. And it is also would because this is a real problem with, like, NIC's have gotten really, really complicated. And it's like, oh, by the way, like, there's another computer over there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:11] Like, SAR I mean, it is, you know, it's its not really clear, like, who's in charge of the system anyway? And especially with, like, you know, smart NIC's, they're being pretty overt about, like, no. No. I get I've got my own CPU. I've got, like, I load my own OS image, and it's like, no.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:27] No. No. You we don't we want any of that. We want to actually be we want to have all this information flow in a way that it's attestable, that we know exactly what it's what we're putting out there, where we so we don't want that level of autonomy out of the system. We don't want this thing for a bunch of reasons, security, reliability, a bunch of things.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:47] So, I and I'm not this felt like a huge, win that we can use this manufacturing mode to do this. I mean, a really a real important aspect. I mean, it is kind of reminds me of the the fact that we don't actually do warm resets. We only boot because we don't want to have this kind of, like, state accruing in places.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:28:09] And it definitely simplified the know, we talk about hardware software co design. This definitely simplified the electrical design. Definitely the last thing you want are more spy mixes and other things in the way dealing with voltage translation, you know, dealing with questions of even which spy port would we have to connect it to? You know, on what device? What way would data flow?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:28:35] So it is really simplified a lot of stuff, which was
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:37] Yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:28:37] Actually, this is a
[Bryan Can trill] [01:28:38] very good point, Robert, because it's like, I do feel that when we, you know, I'd always thought that, like, you know, there's kind of this back and forth over what controls a certain aspect of the system, whether it's the SP or the kind of the host CPU. And there's a kind of Conway's law thing that, you know, you got different orgs that are kind of duelling for power so you don't have an oxide. But, like, even if you are, like, you have, like, total organizational harmony, just when you have something that is effectively dual ported, that is kinda owned by 2 things, you have all these, like, electrical issues that are really thorny about, as you say, like, level translation. There's just a bunch of stuff, that we wanna, sorry. Just to underscore the importance of this.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:29:20] Yeah. It's I mean, we have a team that can has gotten it right time and time again, but also, you know, same way people joke, you know, the best software is the code you didn't write. No bugs in the code you didn't write. You know, there's no electrical problems in the if you don't put those things down. So, and sometimes they're necessary, but, you know, if you can get away with it, it makes it a lot smoother.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:29:42] So anyway, all that said, the way that the kind of whole problem is that the mask room starts up in PCIe, gen 2 it's basically it's hard coded in silicon to start as a gen 2 by 8 device, as opposed to a gen 3 by 16. And we had occasionally seen some failures, and I think it was really Josh Allow who insisted on you, we kinda do some of this boot loop testing where we'd occasionally see devices that had a surprisingly occasional failure, to train the device in manufacturing mode. And if we came back to it later and tried to restart things or took another lap it would often work, or even if you tried to reset it after that it would come up just fine, but that first time on a cold boot, it wouldn't turn on.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:41] And so when you say it does not train, what does training a link mean? Who's doing that training, and what does it mean when it fails to train?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:30:48] Yeah. So that's a great question. So, what we think of this is, so there's a complex state machine in the PCI docs that basically a PCI device goes through to basically have, a PCIe link come up. So when your operating system wants to go read or write from a register, that ultimately gets transformed into a transaction on the PCIe bus, which is a point to point link between a port on the CPU and the downstream device. So the NIC in our case.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:31:22] You may have switches or other things, you know, in more complex designs, but you know, really you can think of PCIE as a bunch of point to point links generally between something on your CPU, which they may call the root port or an upstream port, and a device, often called the downstream port. And so link training is a process of basically figuring out, you know, shared, effectively what are the shared ways we're going to operate. So, for example, because PCIe is backwards compatible, you can take today's Gen 5 devices and put them in a PCIe Gen 1 board, and the link will train at PCIe gen 1. You know, you might have a root port that supports up to 16 lanes, but you might put in a NIC that only has one lane, you know, a small one gig link. So it will do that.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:32:13] To make these links work at high speeds, is a very complex process because you have to figure out a lot of equalization and tuning, so that they can interact. Effectively link training is this process in this kind of large state machine that basically, hopefully ends with the link training, so basically successfully completing the state machine. And it's really done by the PCIe device that you're plugging in, and really the PCIe root port, which is generally a bunch of hardware, in your CPU that probably itself has a secret core running stuff to that no one tells us about. So
[Adam Levinthal] [01:32:52] Is this about figuring out analog kind of coefficients and constant values that make things flow with minimal errors?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:33:00] Yeah. I think that that's one part of it and, you know, that's definitely a large part of it and other parts of, like, the digital protocol communication. Gotcha. You know, what features can be used. So, you know, the PCI Set has done a lot of work and, you know, it's a testament that we can, you know, PCIe has been backwards compatible back to its first release.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:21] It's amazing. Yeah. So that's so yeah. So alright. So that is what it means to train.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:30] So when we're not training occasionally in manufacturing mode, we're just giving up on this. Like, I devices, that's not working. I don't know why.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:33:40] Yeah. Yeah. Basically, we don't see a device come up. So there's a register in the root port, that says, you know, is there a PCI link established? And if you read it, it says no.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:54] There sure isn't.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:33:56] There sure isn't. And you're like, well, that's very sad. So there's a bunch of stuff that we were trying to do to figure this out, because, you know, we had some challenges in the t six initial initially. There's some orator we found the hard way around,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:18] you
[Robert Mustachio] [01:34:19] know, it's eating some double resets and some other conditions. So,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:34:24] double burst. There's a
[Robert Mustachio] [01:34:25] lot of, there's a lot of investigation that you know, we kind of split up and kind of took this in a couple of different phases, which is, I think, right as this was kind of kicking off, I was disappearing on vacation for a bit. But I worked with Nathaniel and Josh and Nathaniel started to basically go through a bunch of, you know, just different questions we had electrically. You know, is there a chance that this could be happening because we don't see the device coming out of reset. So the one of the first things we kinda looked at and, Jose, you can correct me where I'm misremembering some of this was trying to bifurcate, you know, did the device assert it coming out of reset and did we ever try to even begin PCIe initialization or not? Because depending on the answer to that, that would take us down 2 very different paths, and the chip itself has a little pin that says that, that says it came out of reset.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:35:22] So there's a bunch of stuff we looked at there and secondarily, because of a bunch of the low level work we had done, to boot, we knew how to read out the state of the PCI state machine diagram, that the root port thought it was in. So what this meant is that we could go look at the root port, it has, you know, basically a ring buffer of the last 30 is state transitions it's performed. So we can figure out what's it what has it been doing? What has it seen? As kind of guide and you compare that against the PCIe spec and there's a more or less a one to one correspondence between those states and the state machine.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:10] And how are we able to query that because of our own holistic boot? Because we who's got access to that? Is that that
[Robert Mustachio] [01:36:22] You could actually, anyone who has access to the system management network. So it doesn't, strictly speaking, need to have holistic boot, asterisks.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:33] Right.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:36:34] Sorry. So anyone can read this that is, whether you're, you know, in holistic boot or on the oxide architecture or just running a Lumps in general, on Linux or other systems, you can actually read from the system management network. Now knowing what to read and what maps to what, can be a little more challenging because the the the big gotcha, as we said earlier, is that the CPU is flexible. So it has 128 lanes. Right.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:37:02] And there's a mapping, when you talk to that firmware between some of those lanes and what underlying hardware, resource they're using. I mean, so is Robert, like you're saying that, like,
[Adam Levinthal] [01:37:16] anyone can read it, but holistic boot allows us to read it coherently and know what the fuck is going on. Whereas, like, in other scenarios, it's possible, but kind of academic. Right? Like, the
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:30] They're very hard to make sense of it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
[Robert Mustachio] [01:37:34] you can with enough expertise, you can build up a mapping. That's just certainly a lot faster when we have a data structure that tells us, this is what it is for this. Like, this device, which should have the T6, read all these registers. It's certainly a lot simpler and certainly a lot easier because we also integrated, a bunch of register grabbing initially into the actual boot and training path itself. So we could actually just, on a debug build, for example, we'll just automatically collect a bunch of different, registers from the PCIe core and the PCIe, port, which corresponds to the root port just by default.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:38:15] And so certainly that is where this is a lot easier because, that's not as straightforward to do outside of building it really into the system itself.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:38:27] Yeah. Totally. So you were able to go through that to figure out with why is this thing not training?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:38:34] Well, yeah. So that we were able to eventually kind of first do that first kind of bifurcation and say, okay, the device is always coming out of reset. Then, you know, then we can go through and figure out, you know, why. Because basically we no longer have to go look at the had a lot of logical questions but that ruled out a whole huge class and, I'm guessing Nathaniel's thankful was back in my court a little bit.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:39:06] Yes. But
[Robert Mustachio] [01:39:09] but yeah. So then when we started looking at this and, you know, we had this boot loop stuff that Josh had put together, and we had a modified version that was grabbing out some of this register state at every loop. And actually, Angie, had actually already gone through and analyzed a bunch of it, prior to me coming back, to this problem when I was coming back from being out for a little bit. So once we kinda had the sense of that these were all here, these were all very similar, and they were all ending in a similar state, it got us, it was pretty suspicious because what we actually saw and so to understand how PCIe works, you always train a PCIe device to gen 1 no matter what. Then from there, you're going to go to different speeds.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:39:59] And basically, you're part of the gen 1 negotiation, you're saying what else you can support. And then the device will go and, go to these higher speeds. 2 versus 3 is very different, and then 345 are kind of a different path. But we'd see that we basically got to gen we just successfully trained to gen 1, we would go down the upgrade path to gen 2, we would think, you know, we got to gen 2, and then as you're kind of going through the state machine, and you're waiting for the other side to acknowledge, all of this in the like recovery dot speed substate or something like that, It'll just be like, Ah, well, we timed out. And we're going back to detect, which is basically the entry state that says, you know, start looking for
[Bryan Can trill] [01:40:50] something here. Yeah. Yeah. Woah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:40:53] Woah. Well, actually, what was that's it wasn't quite nothing here. But, you know, the whole point is basically you go back to detect to try to see which basically see, is anyone there? We would see if someone is there and start going down the path again, anew, you know, you kind of do a whole fresh link training, and it would just stop replying at a certain transition point that was an indication to enter, what's called compliance mode. So normally compliance mode is something you only enter because you specifically request it because you're at one of these like PCIe interop tests, and you're trying to prove something to you and the PCI, you know, basically to PAS compliance, PCI level compliance.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:33] Mom is here right now, so we need to I'm I'm I'm setting the mom is here butt bit. We need to actually do something slightly differently.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:41:43] But normally you're not supposed to enter it by yourself. Like, you know, there's only a very few occasions that enter it of its own volition. So we would decide that we were entering it and that was just kind of confusing, You know, especially because we had the ability to see what the host side saw, we had it was not very easy to go there was no good way to go answer what was the t6 seeing, and getting a logic analyzer on that was going to be very challenging because we needed to get that on there, we needed to get it on for all 16 lanes, and that's the one downside with the chip down solution is that, you know, it's a little bit hard to get the logic analyzer on there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:24] Just a little bit.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:42:26] So, then, you know, we started doing different experiments. I don't remember all the ones I did, but the one that surprisingly worked was, you know, we kinda said, hey. Everything's training to gen 1 just fine, and then it's going to gen 2 that's failing. So what if we just stopped at gen 1? Yeah.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:42:53] Especially since we're only in this manufacturing mode for a little bit. And when we come back
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:57] And we actually don't care about that throughput in this manufacturing mode where we're just
[Robert Mustachio] [01:43:00] trying to get gen 1 and gen 2 is not gonna, you know, we're really bound by the time it takes for it to talk over spy more than anything else. Right. You know, the actual bandwidth is not going to make or break us. So, shockingly enough, that actually worked, which is both great and a little dissatisfying. But
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:27] Dissatisfying that we don't know what's going on. What's your knowing, we also learned in this that, like, as it turns out this mode, like, we think this makes a lot of sense to to to use this manufacturing mode even though on every boot. But it may make, it's its a little more unusual from Chelsea's perspective. And Yeah. For them, this For
[Robert Mustachio] [01:43:47] them, it's a factory only tool. So any issues that they might have had there, you know, it's really just factory programming. You end up needing to, like, just, like, hit the thing twice
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:57] and
[Robert Mustachio] [01:43:57] it doesn't impact normal operation, like, you know, that's totally fine in a factory context. Not fine, in a product context. So for us, but,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:44:09] This was hugely important because this these were, I mean, when we in our testing in manufacturing, when these things were failing to come into manufacturing mode, we effectively we'd, like, would not ship that sled because we didn't know what the issue was. And we didn't know, I know that was that the issue was, I'm sure, very relieved to get it back into, like, the software domain because, like, the kind of the nightmare is, like, you've got a manufacturing defect effectively, where it's like, yeah, that board needs to be scrapped. And that was not the case, which is a huge relief.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:44:43] Yeah. And, yeah. And I think, you know, this is another one where, you know, we ended up there, but we definitely didn't start with just software only. And so it's really about, you know, working together, brainstorming different ideas, and trying to think about, you know, what could be going wrong. And then more so, how do you make hypotheses that you can disprove, one way or the other to help kind of narrow the solution space?
[Robert Mustachio] [01:45:05] Because otherwise, you know, Joker's wild on different things we thought about. And there was a bunch of other electrical stuff that we did investigate around, you know, were we seeing power, you know, were we not ramping power correctly, other things, you know, could there be something where we're not draining enough while we're taking this a 2 lap? You know, and some of that were easy experiments to go run, so we did do some of them just to disprove that. And, you know, just the, you know, negative results actually are important, which is, Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:45:39] Well, this is a very important point you're making, Robert, is there's, like, holistic design also means holistic debugging. And you've got to get when the system is not behaving correctly, you've got to get ready to cross a bunch of different boundaries that, that are historically difficult boundaries to cross. And you must be able to go really get a team together from across the stack to go brainstorm an issue.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:46:00] Not to quibble, Brian, but I'd say it enables holistic debugging because it's no. No. As you're as you're saying There's,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:06] like, no. Yeah. Yeah. Sure.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:46:07] Holistic design, you know, if is this were a more traditional system, you'd chase it to the border, and that's the best you could do. Right? Like, you could That's right. You could you could sort of imply that there was some other component that that required now examination, but there was really no trivial way or straightforward way at all to communicate across that those arbitrary boundaries. Like, in fact, that Conway's Law I don't know.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:46:31] Conway's Law is when it applies to an entire industry, but you've got that in industrial super form of Conway's Law applied to this aggregation that has become the modern server.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:44] Is that like Conway's wall? Conway's Yeah. Mister Conway, tear down this wall.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:46:51] Yeah. And I think that's actually a good point because in this, you know, we talked about the software changes in the host, but we also looked at stuff in the service processor ring buffers, you know, FPGA register read backs. We added captured a bit more state along the way, and the fact that we could kind of use that to rule out things, the fact that we can easily see what is the state of this ext reset l pin, is hugely helpful. Or the fact that, you know, if we had had to do something much more, you know, invasive, we could have communicated to the service processor over the communication channel.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:47:31] Right. I mean, I think having all this kind of options at our disposal really does allow us to I mean, as you say, Robert, it gives us the opportunity to go holistically debug. So Right. Yeah. That that is awesome.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:47:43] And I think that's actually, you know, the ultimate part of Dogwatch, taking it back there, is these different things actually working together towards solving our problems versus, you know, fighting with one another and kind of hoarding information. And, you know, because we're doing all sides together, you know, some of the things in Dogwatch that were saying, you know, it has it can only be the OS. Well, that's actually a reflection of the fact that, you know, that's because that was the only thing we could actually modify,
[Bryan Can trill] [01:48:13] and the fact that
[Robert Mustachio] [01:48:14] we can modify not just the service processor, not just the host software, but actually the board design itself, gives us a lot of different flexibility in how we can approach different problems.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:48:30] That's right. And, actually, RFD 88 is actually already public, which is great. So that one I don't need to make public because it's already public, but that's another one to check out, which is an RFP that that talks about exactly kinda how we think about who does what in the system, and definitely a consequence of this again, this kind of holistic thinking. Well, Robert, I think this has been a very exciting way to kick off Robert Malachi appreciation week.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:48:57] Yeah. Let's hit that one in the bud.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:04] But we really, really, really appreciate it. If this is it's so great to kinda, obviously, walk through the origins of food for money, Friday. I mean, clearly, let's not
[Robert Mustachio] [01:49:13] let's not just
[Adam Levinthal] [01:49:14] Let's not forget what's important here.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:15] Yeah. Let's not pray the lead here, but future historians will be very pleased that they have finally discovered on the the the canonical origins of this cultural phenomenon known as food for Monday Friday. But the just getting kinda your perspective and kind of the way you've done what you've been able to do, which is, with a lot of collaboration, a lot of hard work, and being willing to dive into new things all the time. And then also being able to come up and think about, you know, how does this impact the actual user of the system? And I love your thinking about that kind of operator empathy, as a guide in terms of a lot of what you've thought about in terms of the system.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:53] But really terrific. So, thank you very much for, for joining and for indulging us, and for, taking us up, down, and all around.
[Robert Mustachio] [01:50:04] No. No problem. Thanks for having me. It was my pleasure.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:50:08] Well, good stuff. And then, Adam, next week, we're we've got a European friendly time, I understand.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:50:15] Yep. 9 AM, in a week. 9 AM Pacific. And we got Organ, and we're talking about Ratatouille, our one of our favourite crates. I know we talked about lots of favourite crates last week, but one of our favourite crates for riding TUI is going to be really fun.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:50:29] It's going to be a lot of fun. So, join us next time. I am looking forward to having you. And Robert, thanks again for joining us. That was a that was a great discussion.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:50:41] All right. Thanks, everyone.