[Bryan Can trill] [00:00] Hey, Adam.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:00] Bryan, we meet again.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:03] We meet again
[Adam Levinthal] [00:04] for the final time.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:07] Yeah. Despite your experience with the two Sure's moving company, your name for my sons in their moving.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:15] No. No. No. No. That but first, I mean, you corrected me last week or a couple of weeks ago when I was saying that we held hands when we rebooted the road.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:23] No. I said it was the Three Stooges movie company, and I said you were really missing something. And I
[Bryan Can trill] [00:29] knew I'm the third Stooge in the Three Stooges movie company.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:32] Right. Right. Without you, I just had these two Stooges.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:36] You had two Stooges. I don't know. The act is kinda missing something a little bit.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:39] No. No. I I was definitely a Stooge along with them as we wrestled around in my storage unit and got everything done. So that was wonderful.
[Bryan Can trill] [00:48] Well, that was very well. Well, they were well, the end stooges moving company was helping you out. I was inhaling careless people by Sarah Wynn Williams.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:58] Oh, nice.
[Adam Levinthal] [00:59] That's
[Bryan Can trill] [00:59] awesome. I Yeah. I actually It is the first time I can remember that Bridget I made the mistake I verbally I was verbally exclaiming a lot while reading
[Adam Levinthal] [01:08] this book.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09] So this is the book by this is the book that Meta has successfully prevented Sarah Wynn Williams from promoting.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:18] But hey, no worries Sarah, like they've actually saved you a bunch of time by doing all the promotion anyone would ever need.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25] The courtesy of Barbra Streisand, we are doing all the promotion. Yeah. It is, and the book is amazing. It is just, and we are gonna we're going to have to we're going to have to do an episode on this. I don't know how.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:38] Obviously, Sarah Wood and Williams can't be on here, but we have to have, like, Charity on here because Charity was at Facebook at the time. Rain was I mean, we've got a bunch of folks that kind of we know that overlap with that, but
[Adam Levinthal] [01:47] No. We're we are going to have Sarah on. She's just not going to be able to say anything. But we should address all of our
[Bryan Can trill] [01:54] I love it. I love it. We can do as far as, as far as anyone is concerned, we got no. We got Sherwood Williams here. She's right there.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:03] She just can't see anything, obviously. Not going to say anything.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:06] That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:07] What kind of it's like a pen and teller thing. I I I kinda like that.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:11] I'm sure it'll work well on an audio format, and we'll go for it.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:15] No. I think we'll go for it. I think that that's That that's great. Anyway, it is an it's a must-read, and I would really I have as I posted on Blue Sky over the weekend, I have not verbally exclaimed this much since reading Bad Blood. Assume you Yelped when reading Bad Blood, I assume.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:32] Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:32] For sure.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:33] I mean, do you not Yelp when reading Bad Blood? That's crazy. I just feel that the because I also feel like I have just read the craziest thing I've ever read in my entire life. And then you read the next chapter, and you're like, I would like to amend my statement. This is now the craziest thing I've ever read in my entire life.
[Bryan Can trill] [02:48] And I definitely feel that that is true for careless people.
[Adam Levinthal] [02:53] Yeah. I'm I'm slowly making my way through a character limit, and I kind of feel
[Bryan Can trill] [02:58] the same How do slowly make your way through character limit? We do know, honest amount of like, you get the spin of a monk to make yourself go slowly through character limit. I am impressed.
[Adam Levinthal] [03:10] I feel like, you know, if you just search and replace that book, you know, Twitter for Doge, you've got like a new book called like Limited Government or something, and you just hit ship. And I think that some of the limiting factor is, like, just I can only take doses of this guy in sort of moderate quantities, and then need to put it down and take a little stroll and then pick it back up.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:39] Oh, that's interesting. So you're saying it's like it's actually not you would love to claim it's that your it is your own self-discipline, but it in fact, it is your it is your immune system that is actually forcing you to actually put this thing down. That's right. That's right. Well, that's however you're pulling it off, I'm amazed.
[Bryan Can trill] [03:55] Feel like Yeah. I feel with Heroes People the way I felt that blood like I recommend people read that blood but make sure that you've got some open time in front of you because you're not gonna, you know, you're not going to feed the children or look after the dog or whatever other critical tasks you have in front of you because you're not going to put it down, and I feel the same way about careless people. It's just it's riveting. In fact, actually, I'm glad that I put, so I put Bridget on to it, and then she started and she then I could get the book back. So I'm like, alright.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:21] Well, actually, this is actually you know what? This is actually this is what I needed. This is the intervention that I needed.
[Adam Levinthal] [04:26] There you go.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:27] But we're not here to talk about careless people. Not yet anyway.
[Adam Levinthal] [04:30] That's right. Sarah Wynn Williams is not here silently on this episode.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:35] On this episode, as far as you know. That's right. That's right. The but we will do that. We're going to have to do that.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:42] We're going to have to do something about it. And I and again, people should read it. So we'll do it. We'll do this is like I and this is like an emergency Oxide and Friends book club. We need to have like the Oxide and Friends book club red phone.
[Bryan Can trill] [04:52] Like, alright, everyone to everyone go read your emergency book. So, anyway, that's all we're talking about. We well, we, I am I'm really stoked to talk about this. We are talking about minibar, which is one of the one of these little one of these exciting boards we've got that you that that folks that wouldn't necessarily know about because we're not shipping this stuff. And you know, one of the things that has been, I mean this is of course makes sense but when you are shipping hardware, a lot of the things that you develop are actually not what you ship because just like in software, right?
[Bryan Can trill] [05:28] We mean software we make debuggers and things like that. We actually do ship that because it's, it costs nothing to ship. But we have a bunch of tooling that is part of building software.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:39] And I mean, even tests. Right? Everyone knows like even relatively unsophisticated software has tests. Like has test suites, has test frameworks, whatever.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:48] That's right.
[Adam Levinthal] [05:48] You know you don't ship that, but you know it's its equally important to the development of the software.
[Bryan Can trill] [05:53] That's right. And so and we have got and similarly, we have a bunch of test stuff for hardware and minibars is kind of an is a bit of an loose ultra on this. So we've got Ian and Doug and Nathaniel with us and we've got some other folks have been working on this thing. So we want to get into kind of what minibar is and this for those of you who may remember when Doug previously joined us on I think it was a cabling the backplate, right? But Doug we That's right.
[Bryan Can trill] [06:25] Yeah. You and Doug you took us through a bunch of the mechanicals and the mechanicals definitely need some assisting pictures, I would say. I know, Adam, this is your your your favourite thing. This is a great podcast. It was a slideshow.
[Adam Levinthal] [06:40] That's right. So speaking of audio format, so we're going to be talking about a bunch of pictures. And for listeners, either if you're on YouTube, you're probably looking at a picture of it in just a moment. Or if you're on the podcast, you can go to the notes. Or if your podcast app supports chapter artwork and
[Bryan Can trill] [07:02] Is that like the is that the feature that is Yeah. It's called chapter artwork. Yeah.
[Adam Levinthal] [07:06] Yeah. We can do some real navel-gazing sometime, and I can talk about my process, my onerous process of making those. But chapter artwork, so if is you open up the app and look at the screen, it'll actually rotate through different images.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:21] And meanwhile, in the chat, I have dropped two links. One to RP three sixty-three, which is an RP that's still in discussion. So this is still like some work in progress. But the RFD describes what we've built with minibar, what we are building with minibar. And then I've dropped in a link to a Google Drive that has got a bunch of a bunch of photos.
[Bryan Can trill] [07:42] So you kind of want to follow along. And maybe with that, Ian, do you want to do you want to kind of introduce minibar and because I've been this is an idea that goes back to really when we kind of shipped the first racks in 2023.
[Ian Sobering] [07:58] Yeah. Absolutely. And I could try to give a description of what minibar is, but I think it's its fair to give some context first about how it came to exist because otherwise, it's gonna sound really weird. So lets if you'll journey back in time with me to the summer of twenty-twenty three, we were getting ready to ship, two racks to our first two customers. And at the time, you know, we had been building compute sleds, and we'd been building rack switches, but we were still very much at the stage of manufacturing where you're dialling in the manufacturing process.
[Ian Sobering] [08:32] And our attention was focused on, you know, building at that time, I'd say medium quantities, you know, because we're, we're scaling up in preparation for starting to ship to customers. But we have the the the manufacturing infrastructure we had was exactly what was needed to build sleds, switches, and PowerShell controllers and racks, and that was it. No, you know, minimum test, minimum other stuff. And so when we were building rack one and rack two, compute sleds would get they'd get assembled. They'd come off the assembly line.
[Ian Sobering] [09:06] An operator would carry them over to a programming station, program all the firmware, load the host OS image, and then we need to test the sled. And And and because what I just
[Bryan Can trill] [09:17] for just a definition because for software folks, when we say pro when it what does it mean program a sled? Because this is not like a program that you write. Wait. When you say programming the sled, what do you mean?
[Ian Sobering] [09:27] Okay. So when I say programming the sled and, Nathaniel, feel free to jump in here and correct me if I screwed this up. Programming the SLED means low oh gosh. Okay. So loading the firmware for the service processor, loading a bunch of stuff into the service processor's auxiliary flash, which is all the images for the sequencer FPGA that's on the board that does power supply sequencing and control, actually loading the host OS image onto the internal m dot two solid state drive that it boots from, and then doing other, like, programming well, yeah, flashing the root of trust, getting all the hardware to the point where the next time you power cycle it, the board will proceed through the power up or through all the power stages, and it will boot into host OS and try to do rack stuff.
[Ian Sobering] [10:19] So there 's's a lot of different moving parts, and it's a, I don't know, four or five-step process of, you know, flash this part and then power cycle and then flash the next part and then power cycle and then load the host OS and then reboot and then do some more stuff, And then you're done, sort of. You still need to test it, and that's where our story begins. Is that
[Bryan Can trill] [10:41] Yeah. That's a Right. That's a yeah. Very fair. The point is that there's actually a lot that actually needs to be loaded on these sleds.
[Bryan Can trill] [10:47] And and and there are a bunch of nooks and crannies that need to be loaded with software.
[Adam Levinthal] [10:50] I think Yeah. In the past, we've referred to this as teaching the computer how to computer.
[Ian Sobering] [10:55] Teachers how to compute in steps.
[Nathanael Huffman] [10:57] It is goes down to things like even some of the smart voltage regulators need configuration Yep. Loaded permanently so that they can do the thing that they're supposed to do.
[Ian Sobering] [11:05] Yeah. And so the for context, I think the programming process takes, what, Nathaniel, ten, fifteen minutes as it loads everything through various interfaces and, you know, the the plug in a bunch of programming dongles, and it's its an it's a pretty operator intensive process at this point.
[Nathanael Huffman] [11:23] Yeah. I mean, the big sources of time there really are loading the have, you know, a 32 megabyte host image that gets laid down into a spy NOR, and so that takes a little bit of time. And then, we also load our m. Twos over the k.2 network, which I'm sure we'll talk about. So Yeah.
[Nathanael Huffman] [11:42] But those are the two big, like, major sources of time there.
[Ian Sobering] [11:46] Yeah. So it takes about ten or fifteen minutes per sled, and you do that for 16 sleds or 32 sleds. But then you're not quite done. There's actually two more steps. So big the biggest and most time-consuming step is you need to test and make sure the slit is working properly.
[Ian Sobering] [12:05] Now that it can compute, we take it pick it up off the programming station, we carry it over to a rack and plug insert it into a rack, and there we want to see a couple of things. We want to see that the rack switch can communicate with the sled over the management network. We want to see all of the data plane Ethernet links come up and work at full speed. Furthermore, we want to see the ignition controllers in the rack switches be able to talk to the ignition targets in the sled. So for I think we've talked about ignition on the podcast before, but ignition is the oxide racks subsystem for doing physical presence detection, low level power control, board identification, and some really basic error reporting regardless of the state of the management network.
[Ian Sobering] [12:52] It is the oldest network. So it would be sometimes we hear me yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [12:55] Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [12:56] But all of these things go then the reason we can't test these things at the programming station is, you know, Brian has talked at great length about the benefits of having this cable backplate and the high level of integration the rack has. Problem is on the test side, I can't just walk up to a sled and plug, you know, an Ethernet cable into it and hook it up to my laptop. All of these interfaces are locked behind the Blind mate backplate connectors that when you slide the sled into the rack, you know, it grabs onto this floating backplate connector cartridge, and it aligns itself, and it plugs itself in and make sure that everything is mated without you having to cable anything up. What that means
[Bryan Can trill] [13:37] is Great
[Bryan Can trill] [13:38] for operations.
[Ian Sobering] [13:39] Put it in a rack. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [13:40] Yeah. Right.
[Ian Sobering] [13:41] And what we ran into, you know, our manufacturing process for sleds was pretty good. We were still dialling it in and there was some attrition, and we can talk about that later. But the problem with trying to test compute sleds in the rack you were trying to build is let's say you plug a sled in and some interface doesn't come up. It could be a problem with the sled hardware. It could be a software bug.
[Ian Sobering] [14:13] It could be a problem with the backplate cable between the sled and the rack switch. It could be a problem with the internal cabling inside the rack switch that goes from the backplate to the switch motherboard. Or it could be a manufacturing problem with the switch. And all of a sudden, in order to troubleshoot this stuff, you're doing things like, you know, oh, okay. Well, you know, cubby 31 didn't come up.
[Ian Sobering] [14:36] Alright. Well, let's swap the sleds in cubbies thirty and thirty-one and see if the problem follows the sled. Well, okay. No. It didn't.
[Ian Sobering] [14:42] So something in cubby 31 is bad. Is it a cable or is it the switch? Alright. Well, let's swap the two rack switches in the rack and see if the problem stays with the switch or follows the switch. And, you know, someone is remoted into one of the management the zone on one of the management sleds looking at all the link status and, oh, nope.
[Ian Sobering] [15:00] Okay. What's the backplate cable? Well, now we have to pull out a backplate cable, and replacing backplate cables is a really
[Bryan Can trill] [15:07] Brutal. Yeah. It's
[Ian Sobering] [15:08] labour intensive process. And all this time, you're moving the sleds around. Yeah. And the more wear and the more times you move the sled, the more wear and tear you put on the sleds before you actually ship it to a customer, and that's bad. We don't want that.
[Ian Sobering] [15:23] To give you an example of something that I was personally there for, we were on Rack 2. We were troubleshooting one particular cubby, and, you know, we'd swap sleds around. We'd swap switches around. Furthermore, we had convinced ourselves it was a backplate cable. And so myself and Robert Keith, one of the other hardware engineers, were in there.
[Ian Sobering] [15:45] We tore the backplate down, pulled the cable bundle, and it's its important to note these you can't replace one cable to one cubby at a time. The cables are in bundles of four cubbies each. So the cables have a big connector on one end that goes on the switch and four pigtails on the other end that go to four cubbies. And so if you touch one cubby, you touch four cubbies, and you increase the risk of, you know, yeah, well, cubby 31 works, but cubby 30 now does not because I somehow damaged the cable going to Cubby 30. Anyway, we replaced the backplate cable and accidentally rotated the backplate connectors 80 degrees in the little floating backplate cartridge
[Bryan Can trill] [16:31] when we
[Ian Sobering] [16:32] put it back together. And if is you look in the photos that Brian put up, you can see these backplate connectors. They're big rectangles. They're about an inch cubed, an inch on each side. And they've got wafers in there that have, you know, a bunch of ground signal ground pairs that you send really, really high speed signals over.
[Ian Sobering] [16:50] But on one side of the connector, there's a big hole. And the big, and it's its almost 10 millimetres in diameter. That big hole is for a gigantic metal spike that's on the backplate connector side of the cartridge. Because when you push a sled in there, as you push the handle on the sled up to lock the sled in place, the spike finds that hole and aligns itself to the backplate cartridge so that when you push it that last little half inch, everything mates up and makes contact in the right order. If you rotate the connector 80 degrees and shove a sled in there, you will stab that spike directly through the backplate connector.
[Bryan Can trill] [17:33] Doug, if I recall correctly,
[Ian Sobering] [17:34] you described piece of firewood. And Yeah. That's what I think you described doing this. Right? Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [17:39] Oh, yeah. No. I 100 because we put it back together, and we've been in their like, twelve hours already at this point doing testing. And so we're both Yeah. Just shredded.
[Ian Sobering] [17:52] And, you know, if is you know, we put it back together, get the cables all hooked up, get the switch hooked back up, I go and grab a sled, and I shove it in there, and I crank the handle up into the locking position, and it goes. And it does not feel very much different from putting a sled in the right way.
[Adam Levinthal] [18:11] So like stabbing
[Ian Sobering] [18:12] it to Just enough different. Was like that that felt a little different going in, so I pull it out and it was split like a piece of firewood. And at that point you have, you know, the sled's dead. You have to send it back to reworking. That's the kind of risk you run testing the sleds in a rack.
[Ian Sobering] [18:30] And Yeah. And I know this has been sort of a long journey down to bring up rabbit hole, but if we realized pretty early on, we needed the ability to test the sleds at the programming station. And to know that every sled that came off was working good when it went into inventory because we've just eliminated an entire error source from a rack testing. We know it's not the sleds. We've tested them all.
[Ian Sobering] [18:59] We know what tests we did. We, in theory, have the test results even, like, saved somewhere, you know, on the network where we can go look and see a sleds test pedigree. And we knew this at the time very, very vividly that this is something we wanted going forward.
[Bryan Can trill] [19:15] When you say this, you're talking about a so we want to be able to have a kind of receptacle that is, but then it is like, this is not just a mechanical problem. It's a mechanical problem, obviously, but it's also a big electrical problem because, like, what are you going to connect to on the other side? And Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [19:31] And this is where this is where minibar's history gets kind of interesting because so simultaneously to building and shipping the first two racks when we're we're realizing we need some more manufacturing test infrastructure. There are, you know, individual engineers and cabals of people throughout the company who are also bumping up into the whole, hey, everything I want is locked behind the backplate connectors
[Nathanael Huffman] [19:58] Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [19:58] Problem. And the hardware team would bump into people from time to time when, you know, you'd hear somebody in a meeting go, you know, man, I really wish, you know, I could plug my commodity Ethernet switch into the management network for some reason. Or, man, I really wish I could test ignition without having to have a sidecar rack switch like in the lab that had because that's what has the ignition controller in it. You know? And if it's locked behind the backplate interface.
[Ian Sobering] [20:28] And, you know, people were suggesting things like, hey, Could we build a, you know, a little dongle board that is like the width of one of these backplate connectors that you could just you could just plug on to each little backplate connector that has, you know, a Max connector on one side and something like an RJ 45 jack on the other and just magically gives you Ethernet. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [20:49] That would be really cool. I support this magical Ethernet plan. What's Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [20:53] And so
[Bryan Can trill] [20:54] All the difference of magical Ethernet, please raise your hands. You need not vote. It's only a software to vote.
[Ian Sobering] [20:59] Yeah. Because all also at the time, you know, we were having to get really creative with Gooding together groups of compute sleds to actually do lab development stuff on. Because I don't think we had a dog food rack at that point. If we did, it was really, really new.
[Bryan Can trill] [21:17] Yeah. It was very
[Ian Sobering] [21:18] it's not a good idea. We might not have had a rack in the Colo Data Centre space yet, which has been a great tool. And so well, and it takes it takes me back to the first time I ever went out to the Emeryville office. I and, of course, it's its during COVID. So I walk in, and there's nobody there.
[Ian Sobering] [21:38] It's just a bunch of IKEA tables that are absolutely covered in computers that people are removing into to do development work. And that was about the state we were at that time too. We had a lot we had a lot of lab sleds
[Bryan Can trill] [21:52] that we wanted to get
[Ian Sobering] [21:53] the backplate connector behind. And so Yeah. These two things sort of came together at the same time and we went, okay, we need a dedicated piece of hardware to do this. And the big question now is what does that hardware look like? And that brings us sort of to the next part of the saga.
[Ian Sobering] [22:08] Nathaniel, have I left anything out here? Or do you wanna
[Nathanael Huffman] [22:12] Nope.
[Ian Sobering] [22:12] Do you want to jump in?
[Adam Levinthal] [22:12] I think alright.
[Nathanael Huffman] [22:13] Yeah. I think that's good. I mean, if it's mostly around, you know, getting tests early. Test early is good for a few reasons. It helps us scale down helps us scale down the like, problem space.
[Nathanael Huffman] [22:23] I mean, there's always the chance that, like, while it was sitting in stock, it got damaged. But it really cuts down and helps us focus on the problems that we have at hand.
[Bryan Can trill] [22:33] Yeah. Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [22:37] So, yeah, now I guess the only question was, what does the hardware look like? There were people who wanted dongles. Oxide was big on dongles. I think
[Bryan Can trill] [22:48] I think everyone dongles.
[Ian Sobering] [22:50] Oxide was big on dongles.
[Bryan Can trill] [22:52] Is that an is a nice thing? I cannot assume everyone. Isn't it doesn't everyone love dongles? Everybody
[Adam Levinthal] [22:56] loves us
[Nathanael Huffman] [22:57] on values. It's in our values.
[Adam Levinthal] [22:58] Right? We did a whole episode just on disables.
[Ian Sobering] [23:01] Yeah. No. And this goes back all the way to the very first, you know, like service processor test boards, you know, the gimlet lets and the and the monorails. So people would make, you know, dongles for a single stick of DDR four, you know, so you could so you could read out the VPD promo, or I squared c or something. And they make an even dongle, you know still much and
[Bryan Can trill] [23:25] I love it.
[Ian Sobering] [23:26] Yeah. And so I that had a lot of traction. But the more we the more we and everyone wanted dongles for their use case. Know, an ignition dongle or that just broke out the ignition links or other stuff. But the more we looked at it, it is it there were five specific things we needed the manufacturing station to do, and that sort of drove everything because all of our lab uses ended up falling into those same test cases.
[Ian Sobering] [23:53] And it was we the programming station needed a piece of hardware that could connect to the sled's ignition target and test that it was working correctly. It needed to be able to connect to the back the PCIe interface that the sled exposes on a backplate connector to make sure that the PCIE interface was working, and it would come up at full speed. It needed to be able to break out the management network Ethernet and convert it from s g m I into some format that the programming station could ingest like base t. We needed to somehow test that these that both of the sleds, 200 g or 100 g Ethernet links would come up at full speed, and we needed a needed a PCA interface that we could use to load the host OS image. The last one is kind of interesting.
[Adam Levinthal] [24:48] Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [24:48] The way and this because this goes back to the multistep programming process. The way we program this the host OS image, the way we load that on the sled is different from the way we do everything else. The service processor, the root of trust, the FPGAs, those all have programming headers on the motherboard for dedicated programmers, and they connect over USB back to the programming station. For the host OS image, we need to load that on something that only connects to the host CPU. So what we do is we pull one of the because there is this nice, you know, PCIe gen three by four interface that we have just sitting there doing nothing, but it goes to a backplate connector.
[Ian Sobering] [25:34] We so we can't get to it. What we have to do at the programming station is actually pull one of the u dot two SSDs out of the front, and Oxide has made an adapter called the k dot two. The k stands for Luge that lets you plug, instead of a SSD, plug a PCB that then lets you plug a bi four Ethernet NIC into it.
[Bryan Can trill] [25:58] It so and we talked about the k dot two in our proto boards' episode. Yeah. Right. The Nathaniel, regrettable but necessary. Is that what's on the k dot two?
[Bryan Can trill] [26:08] Actually, I have one in front of me, but
[Nathanael Huffman] [26:09] It says unfortunate but necessary. Yeah. Unfortunately, but reasonable. Unfortunately, yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:15] And this is a really thorny problem because when we were, we did have this like problem of like how do we actually get how do we program the m dot twos, and it felt like, well, can't we just like program the m dot twos not actually in the sled and if the game what being the compute sled, can't we don't we have a way of like, can't we program them outside the game with unload them? And man, Josh and I went down all sorts of ratholes there. And you would think that like m dot two programmers would exist, but let's just say that that was dead end.
[Nathanael Huffman] [26:47] I mean, they do exist. They just don't work.
[Bryan Can trill] [26:49] They just don't exactly. The good news is they exist. The bad news is that they don't work. So k and k dot two was so clutch for us and so really, really important for us to be able and still important for us to be able to end with a with the first K dot two, I have to say, Nathaniel, I mean, you kind of took a little bit of the K out of the K.2 when you made a three d printed enclosure that it is like, I don't know. Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [27:16] The case is great for clues. It sounds like the case is for printing now.
[Nathanael Huffman] [27:20] Credit goes to Eric for that, really, because so the thing I made, I kind of just I mean, it was like an afternoon slap together kind of thing on k.two. And, you know, it was, like, what if we just stuck a PCIe interface on this thing? And we did that. But, like, I didn't have a production gimlet on hand, so I kinda, like, guessed. And I didn't really look at the CAD.
[Nathanael Huffman] [27:42] And so, like, the original boards that came in ended up needing to have, like, a nibbler taken to their top edge to even get them to fit into the slot. And they were
[Adam Levinthal] [27:51] The way you're phrasing that
[Ian Sobering] [27:53] is like This is Adam's
[Adam Levinthal] [27:54] it's like it was their fault. Like, they needed to have this done to them. Can we just, like, you made it
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:00] a little too big it wrong?
[Adam Levinthal] [28:01] I mean chop off half of, like, part of the fucking It
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:05] was it was like yeah. You need, like, a quarter of an inch off the top of the PCB.
[Adam Levinthal] [28:08] Explaining it in such an an a hermetic way that makes it feel like a more sophisticated than taking some scissors to a PCB.
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:17] Well, yeah. Yeah. We used a nibbler, and so and that's not like a nice cut. Right? And so it's just kind of Yeah.
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:22] It looks like somebody chewed the top of Yeah. Like the and it's like a four inch. I mean, you need like a four or six inch nibble there. So, anyway, yeah, it's its ugly. But Eric did a nice job.
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:32] He when we decided that this was more than, like, you know, we're we're not going to use four of these. We're gonna need, like, 40 of these. Then Eric was like,
[Bryan Can trill] [28:40] while a hundred of these? Yes.
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:41] Yeah. Exactly. Why don't I why don't I CAD up something real? And so he, you know, he made a nice enclosure. He's he's got some, shots there in, in Discord.
[Nathanael Huffman] [28:50] But, anyway and, like, you know, he know, we got a nicer PCIe connector, so the NIC's weren't at right angles. And, you know, anyway, he did a nice job. But we're we're we that's annoying because we don't get to test the sled with an u dot two. So Right. We take an u dot two out.
[Nathanael Huffman] [29:04] And, like, while we get good confidence that our, that's a buy one NIC because it's just a gigabit, you know, gigabit NIC. And so we know that that one of the four lanes works fine for PCIe, but we don't really get to test that. And so with minibar, we get to stick the NIC in out the back and test that and use that use the sidecar, PCIe lanes for that. And we can leave the u dot two in there so we can get full front and full fidelity test on all 10 drives.
[Bryan Can trill] [29:33] Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [29:36] Because right now, if you go over to a programming station, you know, they and it is does look nice. So, you know, it's its all in a case of everything, but you'll see, especially if there are multiple sleds being programmed, there's kind of a pile of u dot two drives sitting there Yeah. That have been removed from the sleds. And, you know, at some point, you have to put them back in and then do more testing.
[Ian Sobering] [29:56] So
[Bryan Can trill] [29:57] And then, you know, I just really also want to get just a quick tangent on the programming of Ignition in particular because we had this incident that we all that perhaps somewhat callously referred to as the mass casualty incident where we blew out a bunch of gimlet sleds right before compliance. I think we talked about that in the compliance episode, or maybe it's too traumatic. But the and you'd actually done a bunch of the investigation working with someone who had helped us decay that ignition to figure out what had actually happened. This is a lattice ice 40 chips. And we think, I mean, the kind of the moral of that story is that like these things are somewhat sensitive on their programming interfaces and this is this has to be done carefully.
[Bryan Can trill] [30:43] You can act absolutely blow out a sled in the process of programming it.
[Ian Sobering] [30:48] Yeah. And that I that interface for whatever reason was particularly sensitive. I think it was a think it was a grounding issue because the mitigations we put in place after the quote unquote mass casualty event, we've we've never seen
[Bryan Can trill] [31:02] that problem again. But I'm
[Ian Sobering] [31:05] I'm looking back through my email trying to find the, the correspondence because we worked with, an ex contractor who was a yeah. John McMaster, who's a friend of
[Bryan Can trill] [31:16] John McMaster. Yeah. Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [31:17] Of Rick, former oxide employee. And he and he did a wonderful job. He decamped the ICs. He took die photos. Furthermore, he, you know, did impedance measurements of all the pins.
[Ian Sobering] [31:27] And I mean, it was really clear from looking at it that, you know, not only did something cause the a bunch of ESD protection structures on the die to blow, but it happened during programming, I think. Yeah. And and and it was probably weakened during programming enough that then when it, you know, you put them in the rack and they blow. So it is, but we haven't seen that again.
[Bryan Can trill] [31:53] But it also is highly just the importance of getting this kind of step right in a bunch of different dimensions.
[Ian Sobering] [31:58] Well, and you want it to be as operator friendly as possible too because one of the risks to these parts is if is you have an operator who has to reach in there down to the motherboard and, you know, they have to find the right connector to plug it into and there's you know, they're they're not in on Gimlet, I'll say they're they're not in, like, convenient places Good. Because, you know, for a lot of reasons. And so they have to plug the thing into the right connector, They have to plug it in the right way. They have to not touch any of the rest of the printed circuit board. That's also an issue for the operators because they have ESD protection, but the less you poke the board, the better, especially on the programming interfaces.
[Ian Sobering] [32:41] So it is whatever we come up with needs to be operator friendly.
[Bryan Can trill] [32:46] There you go. Yeah. Okay. So that this kind of sets the stage for kind of some of your first thinking on what became minibar. Minibar so named because we had named our sled and side we had our various elements in after cocktails and I felt like this was going to be a miniature variant of all the cocktails on
[Ian Sobering] [33:06] Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [33:07] On the minibar.
[Ian Sobering] [33:08] And that's almost exactly what happens. So because we were sitting here looking at minibar going, okay. So at this point, we're talking about a piece of hardware that plugs into the backplate basically has a backplate interface, has an ignition controller, has a management network switch, do you know, breaks out Ethernet to what are effectively technician ports, and does some TBD thing with the, you know, 200 g base k r four Ethernet links. Oh, and it connects to the sled over the PCIe interface. This is a rack switch.
[Ian Sobering] [33:47] We need a two channel rack switch, You know, instead of a 32 instead of a 64 channel rack switch, you know, or a 32 channel rack switch, we need a two channel rack switch for one sled.
[Adam Levinthal] [33:59] Forgive me, but did you already explain why there was a PCIe connectivity coming out the back of the sled?
[Ian Sobering] [34:05] Oh, no. I didn't. And, and thank you for reminding me. So in the oxide rack, the sleds in Cubby 14 and Cubby 16 actually plug into the rack switches over PCIe. They attach to the Torino two switch ASICs in the rack switches, and they manage them over PCIe.
[Ian Sobering] [34:25] In all the rest of the Cubbies, the PCIe interface is just unconnected. But whatever sled you install in Cubby 14 and Cubby 16, the Torino two will attach to that interface, and that sled is responsible for managing. So even though, you know, 30 of the 32 sleds are not going to use that interface, all of them need to get tested because one of our big selling points is, hey, you can put sleds anywhere. You know, there is no special, you know, special sauce where that's concerned. So, yeah, we were looking at a two channel rack switch, and that's where minibar came from is, you know, we've got we have all of these cocktail themed, you know, things, and minibar's going to have a little bit of all of it in it.
[Ian Sobering] [35:07] And it and as I think, Brian, you were the one who came up with the minibar name. But that was gone ahead. Which maybe a
[Bryan Can trill] [35:15] dated concept. I'm not even sure minibar still exist. I'm not sure that they know, I think DoorDash may have ruined the minibar. But okay. So we start down the path, and I think to a certain degree, I mean, did you feel like you were kind of pulling together a list of what of, like, what people want from Santa because all of felt like you're just everyone was like, god, I like oh, finally, someone is doing this.
[Bryan Can trill] [35:38] Okay. I've got all sorts of things I want in this thing. I want you to learn it up with everything.
[Ian Sobering] [35:41] Yeah. No. Well, because and also, like, let's talk about everything that else that was going on at OX at the time. You know, we were the hardware team was, like, at Benchmark Electronics in Rochester, Minnesota actively building these racks. We were dealing with, you know we're continuing to refine and make changes that would improve the design for manufacturing of the sleds and the rack switches and everything else.
[Ian Sobering] [36:07] We were starting to look ahead into the future at, Cosmo, which is Oxide's socket s p five compute sled. So we were doing the initial design work on Cosmo, and everyone was really busy. So Minibar's design at first was, like chasing down individual people and going, hey. I noticed you were working on subsystem x. Please tell me what would help you develop subsystem x in the lab.
[Ian Sobering] [36:40] And there for a while, there wasn't really a cohesive vision for minibar until you finally get the list of stuff together, and you're like, shoot. I just need two I need two channels of the switch. And that's what it's going to have to be. And Yeah. And there are other reasons for that too because if you know, we're we only have I'll, I'll borrow Nathaniel's phrase, and I really like it because it's its very accurate.
[Ian Sobering] [37:04] We only have so many hardware engineering credits that we can spend at any given time. And a lot of them are allocated to sustaining engineering work or to getting racks shipped or to future product design. Whatever we do for minibar, it can't have a massive brand-new hardware lift. And it can't have a massive brand-new software lift especially because the software side of the house was just doing heroic work at that point, getting features ready for the first production racks. And so we were incentivized to reuse as much existing architecture as possible.
[Ian Sobering] [37:52] And that naturally led us down the path of, you know, take a switch, cut out as much as you can what's left. You know, take instead of an instead of a Torino two switch ASIC on the end of the PCIe interface, put a PCIe slot where you can plug a Ethernet NIC in, you know, in instead of you know, and and and the list goes on. So that actually helped us in the end because the software side of minibar spring up has been really straightforward so far. We already have drivers for that stuff.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:21] Yeah. They from a and we're because you're just talking about like running hubris on the SP there and Yeah. I right. So then another so another kind of kink that I just want to make sure that we don't we don't forget to talk about is we're also doing a big tooling transition. And we are we're we're moving because we've been using Orca on Gimlet, but it wasn't like, we were moving away from Orca.
[Bryan Can trill] [38:48] We were moving to Actium for a bunch of reasons but a bunch of unequivocal reasons moving to Actium. So because I think it was a minibar or Medusa that was first in for Actium. I think minibar was certainly very early for
[Ian Sobering] [39:00] I think Medusa actually beat it by a little bit. And I and if I can say a couple words about Medusa Yeah. Absolutely. Before we name-drop it here. So with I I I talked about the sled side of building the racks and the experience with swapping the sleds around and troubleshooting, you know, if links don't come up, are they sleds?
[Ian Sobering] [39:18] Are they switches? Are they backplate cables? What is it? One of the other pain points really, really, really painful points we identified in that in building those first two racks was, was actually in the switch. The rack switch is not just one big printed circuit board.
[Ian Sobering] [39:34] It's three. And if you count the fans, it's four. And if you count the temperature sensors, it's five. But all the so there 's's back panel ports and those have, you know, their own cabling, but there's also front panel ports. The switch has had a bunch of QSFP ports on the front for optical transceivers.
[Ian Sobering] [39:57] One And that QSFP
[Bryan Can trill] [39:59] board Yeah. Is that QSFP board is I mean, how many parts are there in that bomb? That it is I think is that it is certainly yeah. It's big. Whether it's our second or third most complicated board, it is it's on the podium.
[Ian Sobering] [40:12] Yeah. I it's its it's a beast. And the problem we were seeing was right at the end right at the end of of of doing all the rack testing, we would test all the front panel ports on the Switch, and we would test all the fibre runs in the rack. Because when we deliver the racks to customers, they are wired up with the fibre that the customer has requested, whatever their, you know, and the optics the customer has requested, they're they're ready to go.
[Bryan Can trill] [40:41] Because the optics are not all the same. And the just in case And
[Ian Sobering] [40:44] the optics are not all the same. You know, different
[Bryan Can trill] [40:47] customers You have
[Ian Sobering] [40:48] fibre in their data centres. Yeah. They've qualified different transceivers. And so we are you know, we one of the one of the last steps we do and because it's its just the way it falls in the manufacturing process. For you know, first, you build them sheet metal, then you wire in the backplate, then you put all the stuff in the rack, then you test all the stuff, then you put the fibre in.
[Ian Sobering] [41:09] Because if you need to pull stuff out of the rack, working around, you know, working around the fibre is really not fun. So one of the last steps is we route all the fibre through the rack, and we use the fibre just to wire up all 32 ports on the front of the on the switch in loop back. And we run a loop back test on it to see all the know, we have 32 optical modules, you know, on a big on a big storage tray, and we pull them out, and we populate them all at the same time, and they all turn on and all the links come up. You know, because even if the customer's only going to use one or two ports, and I and I think that's been the use case so far, We need all of them to work, and we check the fibre at the same time to make sure it's all terminated right and, you know, none of the connectors are dirty. You know, we clean the connectors, things like that.
[Ian Sobering] [41:56] What we discovered was that every once in a while, well, I'd say every once in a while, on three out of four rack switches that would come off the assembly line, there would be a problem on the QSFP board that has the cages for the QSFP modules and all the power supplies and the FPGAs to configure it and manage the transceivers, some of the press fit connectors on that board, the pins would get bent during the press fit operation. And then this is just one of those this is a normal manufacturing thing. It's one of the things you figure out in the process of bringing anything into production. What sucked about it is it's an absolute nightmare to replace one of those boards after it's assembled in the switch. The switch has to come out of the rack, which is a two man You have to unplug all the backplate cables and anytime you bend the backplate cable because the switches are not hot swappable.
[Ian Sobering] [42:49] They go in the rack, and they bolt in and in theory, they don't come out without a technician there. And so you have to unplug all the backplate cables, try not to bend them, you two man lift the switch out, and you put it on something called the rotisserie because this thing is you need to you need to take some screws out on the top, then you need to flip it out, you need to take some screws out on the bottom. And to do that, there's a there's a big I mean, it's its an it's like a spit that clamps onto this thing and has a crank on it where you crank it, and it spins it upside down. So you can, you know, one person can just sit there and, you know, work on the top and then spin it upside down and work on the bottom and then spin it back. Have to do something like 50 screws.
[Ian Sobering] [43:34] You have to pull all the cables out and I mean, we got to the point where it takes like, you could replace one of these boards and take about forty-five minutes.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:44] And Yeah. As Eliza is saying in the chat, it is actually the rotisserie is the star of every oxide office tour.
[Ian Sobering] [43:51] It is. It gets a lot. It's its big, and it's green, and it gets a lot of attention.
[Bryan Can trill] [43:56] Doug, do want to talk just a little bit about the rotisserie? Because that that that's such a, and we'll, we'll get some photos of this that we can drop in because it's that was another kind of custom jig that has, I think, proven to be very valuable.
[Doug Ribbon] [44:09] Yeah. The sidecar rotisserie was basically something we came up with to allow us to access the top and the backside of the sidecar to fix the cables and, you know, to not have somebody, you know, two people every time to flip it over at risk of dropping a 75 pound mass on yourself. We affix it to basically a kind of rotating system that it would affix to on kinda similar to minibar here, some aluminum extrusions on a welded stand and then a, I guess, a wheel that would allow it to flip over. So it's you know, we've gotten a lot of mileage out of it for, you know, demos as we've been mentioning in the chat here, which was not necessarily the intent, but I'm I'm glad it shows well. So yeah.
[Doug Ribbon] [45:00] That was a little bit of an engineering effort on its own.
[Bryan Can trill] [45:03] Yeah. Well, and I think and this is one of these, and I think we Doug, there's been a lot of these where we kinda have this problem where you can, I mean, you can find things like you can go you can try to go buy something that will do this, but it's going to be more expensive and less fit for purpose? And I
[Ian Sobering] [45:22] I mean, that's kind of the story of everything at oxide though. Right?
[Bryan Can trill] [45:25] Yes. That's right. That's right. And I mean, I think we've had a lot of these, but like, man, they've been in so many this, thank God. We've got the the chops and the kind of the two just go do this ourselves.
[Bryan Can trill] [45:37] I mean, is like and Doug, I mean, yeah. As you say, the rotisserie has paid for itself many times over, not just in terms of office demos, although certainly that. It is it took us a while to get the guts to actually flip that thing all the way over because, know if it did, it did not want you know, you drop that as you say. It's like it's not just it's the weight. Furthermore, it's the as everyone knows, I've got the if is there's a way to destroy something, I'll find a way to do it.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:01] So
[Ian Sobering] [46:02] It's particularly unnerving because so because the switch is a two-man lift, there are four handles. There's two on each side for you to grab as you pull it out of the rack. And as when it's on the sidecar, even if it's secured in place, as you spin the wheel and rotate it past 90 degrees, the handles will flip out of their little recess stitches
[Bryan Can trill] [46:21] flip out.
[Ian Sobering] [46:22] And go Yeah. Click of the click on the side of the chassis. And so you hear metal start to, like, click and clack and ting. You know, every time I do it, there's this it's like, oh, it's just the handles. Okay.
[Ian Sobering] [46:32] Yeah. Right. Not it's not like shifting in the, you know, in in the I'm not going to drop a you know Yeah. $10,000 rack switch or whatever. To unwind I'm I'm sorry.
[Ian Sobering] [46:43] Go ahead, Doug.
[Doug Ribbon] [46:44] Yeah. I think that's been in existence for probably two years, and knock on wood, I don't think anyone has dropped one out of there yet. So we'll hold down.
[Bryan Can trill] [46:52] No. I'm knocking wood right now, Doug, but don't worry. It feels very Yeah. It feels very secure. So if it's been Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [46:57] And it gets a lot of use. There's a there's a rack switch that lives just permanently on a rotisserie in the oxide office for demos because people can, you know, look at this. Isn't that cool? Oh, yeah. Well, you think that's cool?
[Ian Sobering] [47:08] Wait until you see the bottom, you know, and
[Bryan Can trill] [47:09] the bottom. Exactly. The spider the the spider's nest in the bottom.
[Ian Sobering] [47:14] But in any way, to unwind this bunny trail that I started, we made a smaller test board for the rack switches before they go into the rack called Medusa. And it is a 32 port loop back tester that plugs into the front of the switch with 32 just passive DAC cables. And so as switches come off the manufacturing line, we deliberately test the front IO board in loop back before it goes into the racks so that we don't have to unwind the rack later. And Medusa was, you know, so named because it has 32, you know, QSFP DAC cables coming off the front of it. It looks like a nest of snakes.
[Ian Sobering] [48:00] That was actually the first board to go through in Actium in the new CAD chain. Minibar followed not very long after that. I can't remember exactly the timeline. But We but Medusa was another that was another manufacturing pinch point that we found about the same time that we really needed to build our own tool to address.
[Bryan Can trill] [48:21] Well, and the thing that I loved about actually sending those two through this kind of new tool chain we're getting used to with Actium is that it also because you're using so many of the same parts that we're using in Cosmo and elsewhere. It's like we're getting the parts' library, we're getting all the things that we need from a kind of the a cleanliness of EDA perspective as Nathaniel. Nathaniel was fond of telling me after we brought up the K1, it's like, you realize that this like, this relied on luck. Luck cannot be the strategy. We've got to do something, and so just like getting on a much better footing with respect to libraries and so on.
[Ian Sobering] [48:54] Yeah. And we tried to time that on purpose. It just came at the tool transition came at a bad time. And actually from for Minibar because the first version of Minibar had actually gotten it to the point where it was schematically complete in Orca. And
[Bryan Can trill] [49:11] Oh, really? I didn't think I knew that. Wow.
[Ian Sobering] [49:12] We were getting ready to have schematic reviews and and and or might have had a schematic review or something like that. And then we decided to change to Actium. And at that point, the focus was very much, you know, getting all of our parts libraries migrated over well, not even migrated. Re recreating our parts libraries in Actium and having a clean baseline needs to happen first because the next you know, before minibar, before anything else, because the next thing that's coming down the pipe is the Cosmo compute slot. And by the time we are ready from a project management perspective to start working on Cosmo, all of that parts library needs to be in place.
[Ian Sobering] [49:48] And some of that is how Actium works. Altium is a really great tool, But in order to place a component symbol in the schematic, you know, even if you're just in there messing around, you know, playing with ideas, the component needs to be registered in the PLM system. It needs to have a schematic symbol and a footprint and be reviewed and then released into the component library. So there's a lot of upfront work. You know, it's not like KiCad where you can just sort of draw a one-off symbol and say, oh, I'm you know, I'll wait till later to assign it a footprint or check things.
[Ian Sobering] [50:26] Right now, I'm just drawing a schematic. In Actium, you need to do all that work upfront. So Robert Keith, one of the other hardware engineers, and myself and and and everyone else embarked on what ended up being about a ten-month journey to learn Actium and build the parts library and clean everything out, clean out all the crap from the PLM system. Nathaniel wrote, what, eight track, all the tooling around integrating Actium's PLM Actium's component libraries into our PLM system and doing generating e bombs and mechanical bombs and scrubbing stuff. And, do you want to talk a little bit about that?
[Ian Sobering] [51:10] Because that that deserves its sort of own sidelight here.
[Nathanael Huffman] [51:14] I mean yeah. I mean, mostly, we just I mean, we wanted to script all the things. And so we started doing that with Cadence, and so we had to transition that over to Actium. And, you know, we want to automate, make it so that you can push one button and get a board package. That's really all that's going on there.
[Ian Sobering] [51:30] Yeah. And it's its it's really slick. It was definitely worth it.
[Bryan Can trill] [51:35] Yeah. And well, one of the advantages was that that that we were there's a much better tie through to the mechanical side. Right? And I think it's because I think it was one of the early minibar demos where you're showing kind of showing it in SolidWorks. And I mean, it just makes it much easier to kind of think about mechanically.
[Ian Sobering] [51:52] Oh, yeah. So Actium has two things that really sped up our workflow. And Doug, feel free to jump in here on the SolidWorks part. Actium has a nice little three d renderer built into the electrical CAD side of the program to where I can, you know, I can just hit, you know, number pad key three and, you know, like, you know, number one is the two d board outline. Number two is the two d view.
[Ian Sobering] [52:18] Number three is the three d view. And if I when I build my parts' library, if I put in three d models of all my packages, I can see how my board's going to look. You know? And if I configure Actium right, I can set up design rules that check like package to package distance with the actual three d packages. Not going to go into more detail about that because that's a whole different Give me a about whether that's useful or not.
[Ian Sobering] [52:47] But one thing it does do is and I put an image in the images' directory of the Actium three d render of what the minibar board looks like, and then right next to it is an image of what the actual board looks like. And they're pretty close because we can get in this day and age, we can get pretty good packages from most vendors. And if we can't, Doug will make them. The second part is Actium has a really great SolidWorks integration plug in where Doug and I can push boards back and forth from SolidWorks to Actium to SolidWorks to Actium, and he can fix all the components I've put in the wrong places and do, like, actual tolerance mechanical checking against his enclosures. And that is phenomenal.
[Ian Sobering] [53:30] Because all of a sudden, you know, he can do stuff in parallel with me, and he can find all my mistakes.
[Bryan Can trill] [53:39] That's very cool. So is that a good segue to the kind of the mechanical side of this? Because there's obviously Oh. Doug, there's a there's a big mechanical piece here.
[Doug Ribbon] [53:48] Sure. Yeah. I can start with the ECD, ECD kind of co design integration as part of Actium just in brief. That's something I think I've been promised for twenty years that has never come into fruition. But now we have it, and it's great.
[Doug Ribbon] [54:03] I Ian can place things. I can move things. I can add keep outs. Furthermore, I can add heat sinks. Furthermore, I can add all kinds of stuff, and the integration actually work.
[Doug Ribbon] [54:11] It's fantastic. So, yeah, there's a lot of back and forth between Ian and myself on the printed circuit board layout with regard to connectors and the location of everything else. Do we want to jump into the mechanical design of the mini bar?
[Bryan Can trill] [54:24] Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah.
[Doug Ribbon] [54:25] Yeah. Okay. So I kinda numbered my pictures in the kind of the evidence file here in the link backwards. So picture eight's probably the best one here to describe this. So, you know, when given the task of designing some mechanism to integrate this mini bar tester into a compote sled, we first started out with a printed circuit board.
[Doug Ribbon] [54:49] Sam tech, the Max connectors, they make plugs and receptacles kind of in the same format. We originally had it so that we would plug a board kinda similar, I guess, nearly exactly what Ian shows in his images here with the plug style of the Max connector into the receptacle style on the Gimlet. That probably could have worked, but there were a couple of issues. So the guess, the main issue was that these connectors are only rated for 250 mating cycles. So for Yeah.
[Doug Ribbon] [55:27] For lag use, that that would last forever. For our production units, we kind of had to tailor our main design for the production units because those are the ones, you know, as we continue to grow as a company and volumes go up, we're going to need to be running a lot of sleds through these testers. So, the ideal idea was to put a cable, a very short cable, like image. Yeah. The light has that, in between the compute sleds and the minibar PCBA.
[Doug Ribbon] [56:02] We've got the shortest ones that State offers that will make them five inches long, 27 millimetres, and that was enough, basically, to kinda bridge that gap there. So, also, in kind of giving it this compliant this loose connection between the test board and the product board, we're able to use the same blind mate mechanism that we used in the rack that we had on the accident friends about two years ago, I think, here. So I didn't have to didn't have to invent anything new as far as the alignment goes. The sled already has a latch on it, a handle and a latch for articulation, and we in large part borrowed a lot of the same design elements from our cubbies. So, you know, the current rack has 16 cubbies.
[Doug Ribbon] [56:51] They're two sleds wide. Our minibar enclosure, the production one, is essentially a thirty-second of a rack. It's just one cubby, you know, extended a slight amount to add a board, and the main interface is largely the same. So when our production operators and manufacturing are running the boards for the test, it's a familiar motion. They don't have to reach around and plug anything in.
[Doug Ribbon] [57:14] Training should be minimal. And, you know, we should be able to kinda fire these in and out at a reasonably quick play pace kind of compared to the programming cycle.
[Bryan Can trill] [57:27] Yeah. Right. And then so and then this allows so by separating out those connectors, when we hit the mating cycles, we will replay we'll be able to just replace the connectors on the cubby and leave the mini bar alone. I's the idea there.
[Doug Ribbon] [57:41] Yeah. So the the to connect the cables, there are three cables, the two main ones and then the CAU one that that Ian mentioned. Presumably, if we're doing kind of periodic maintenance on a tester, we'd probably just replace them all at once just for
[Bryan Can trill] [57:56] Right. Yeah. Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [57:57] Sure we're
[Doug Ribbon] [57:57] not always missing them. But if is one happens individually, right, we could replace one individually. We can also since only one end of it is getting mated, we can rotate them 80 degrees and get another you know, double the cycles out of them because the the test run doesn't get cycled.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:16] Yeah. And this is, again, a very important to get this stuff right. Adam, do you remember back in Fish works days when we had the contract manufacturer with a broken testing probe that do you remember this?
[Adam Levinthal] [58:27] No. I don't.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:28] That was because we were seeing all these failures on one of the mashie NIC's, and it was always the same NIC. And it was because the tester had bent pins, and it was literally breaking every neck as it was coming through the line. Oh. Well, just like yeah. It's just like the absolute opposite of what you want to be doing.
[Bryan Can trill] [58:49] It's the taking good stuff and training. So anyway, it's very important that like you, you really like being mindful of these mating cycles and making sure that the actual manufacturing equipment is, certainly doing no harm, but it's all very important.
[Adam Levinthal] [59:06] That's right. That it's evaluating and bussing out things that are broken, not introducing brand new Exactly.
[Ian Sobering] [59:13] And that and that was if I can jump in here and elaborate on what Doug said, that was one of the other reasons we went to the cubby with the blind mate backplate connector was, you know, back toward the beginning of the podcast, we were talking about the dongle thing. Minibar's original concept was, okay, well let's let's just make a printed circuit board that's as wide as a compote sled that has, you know, power connectors and backplate connectors in all the same spots, and you can just shove it into the back of the sled, you know, on the table. Because we were envisioning something like, you know, a k dot two adapters, like you plug a k dot two adapters into a sled. You know, I was originally envisioning something in a three d printed case that you would plug into the back of the sled, and it would do the same thing. And, you know, Doug very quickly went through that and said, you know, this is going to be a nightmare of how do you get this aligned.
[Ian Sobering] [01:00:03] It's going to be really prone to operator error. You know, you're you're trying to get all these connectors and stuff lined You know, Doug had already done gone down that rabbit hole with the blind mate backplate cartridge. And, you know, he know, we also did the math on how, you know, how quickly would we burn through the mate debate cycle rating of these EMACS connectors on the production floor? It because it's its something like 200 mate debate cycles. And Right.
[Ian Sobering] [01:00:30] And I want to be clear. That's not a hard you know, that's not a brick wall. You know, at cycle two zero one, it's not going to be an open circuit. You know, and in reality, it's probably good much longer than that. That's just what they rate it to.
[Ian Sobering] [01:00:43] And we don't want to ever get in a place where it just sort of slowly decays, and you start getting intermittent programming failures, and then the operator has to troubleshoot that. But, you know, each rack has you know, let's say you've got one minibar. Each rack has 32 sleds that you're going to program plus a couple of hot spares. So and if you ship a hundred racks a year, you're going to burn through more than one minibar a year just replacing it based on the connectors. And at that point, we're like, okay.
[Ian Sobering] [01:01:15] We've already solved this problem. Know, kinda like we know, we've already built a rack switch. You know, we've already designed a blind made package.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:22] We've already designed a cubby.
[Ian Sobering] [01:01:23] Already have a cubby that the sled goes in. And all of Doug's, you know, locking mechanisms and retention stuff and protections to prevent you from crashing the sled in the backlink connector, you know, and it became very clear at that point. It's like, oh, we have this. Let's let's just make it let's make a small one.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:41] Yeah. That's awesome. Okay. So we get the and we get this gorgeous mechanical design. If this thing in the photos, it looks rugged.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:01:49] I guess it feels very rugged. It just feels great. The so and then take us through kind of the kind of the development of the board and because you're doing layout as well on this. Right, Ian?
[Ian Sobering] [01:02:03] Yeah. So simultaneously, we're we're we're trying to figure out how big the board needs to be. And so because Doug needs to know how big to build the mechanical enclosure. And the cubby the rack cubbies are already pretty deep. You know?
[Ian Sobering] [01:02:19] I mean, a rack is almost a meter deep, and we're about to add another foot onto that. And so we're we're building this big long rectangle, and Doug and I are kind of looking at it going, I don't know if this is going to fit on the shelf in the lab. Because the other thing in the back of our heads is people want these things for lab use. You know, and we have engineers that were probably going to ship these things to people's houses. Because that was the other thing.
[Ian Sobering] [01:02:45] You know, we've we have people who have full up sidecar rack switches at their house. That's not a cost-effective solution because there are a lot of oxide engineers who need to get at the stuff behind the backplate connectors. But sidecars are expensive, and they're heavy to ship. We don't you know, we want to be able to send them something a lot smaller and a lot cheaper. And so, you know, Doug and I kicked it around for a while and eventually came up with something that's about, you know well, I mean, you can see in the photos there.
[Ian Sobering] [01:03:18] It's its the width of a compote sled and, you know, I don't know, about 10 inches deep that has basically the guts of a sidecar minus the know, minus all the QSFP ports and minus the big switch ASIC. It has an ignition controller. It has a PCIe slot that that breaks out that nice backplate PCIe interface where you can plug a NIC into it. Furthermore, it has a full management network switch with all the same switch ASICs that we use in Sidecar to do the management network side of the switching, not the data plane side. Furthermore, it has a service processor.
[Ian Sobering] [01:03:57] It has a root of trust, so we can do measured boot validation on, you know, minibar firmware if it's out on a production floor where we don't necessarily have physical control over the hardware or who's accessing it, it's got Ethernet ports on the back, and it's all nice and boxed up. I think Doug and I were both really happy with how the whole system ended up looking. It is it was really slick. But the size of the minibar itself was a problem. And because we we we designed the production it's a big it's big.
[Ian Sobering] [01:04:34] It's big. And we had one of these at Ox Con back in October to play around with. And they're I mean, they're they're probably going to get bolted to the programming stations. They're big and heavy. And it needs to stand up to a lot of a lot of abuse.
[Ian Sobering] [01:04:49] And Doug did a perfect job of building that into the design, but remember back to the beginning, there were all these other engineers who, you know, hey, want one at my house. And like, you know, in my bedroom here, I don't have room for a full minibar. So Doug came up with what we call minibar light where we, you know, for applications where you're you're not going to be pulling sleds in and out of it all day, but you just want to set it up on your bench and have it be plugged in there for long periods of time, and you're not going to be messing with it, Doug came up with a way to repackage the all the minibar electronics in a little three d printed enclosure that mounts on the top of the sled with magnets and gets cabled up with all the same backplate cables. They're just not blind mated. You plug them in manually, you put little three d printed retention clips on them.
[Ian Sobering] [01:05:42] So, Doug, do you want to talk about minibar light?
[Doug Ribbon] [01:05:45] Sure. So, yeah, going back to, you know, the original design, we I originally only had the one design and kind of socialized it. And like Ian said, the response was that is too big. So, yeah, we can I didn't take long to convince me that, yeah, we needed something smaller and cheaper? So, you know, the the the full mini bar enclosure for production is just a bunch of stock extruded aluminum elements.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:06:14] It's not terribly expensive, but if there 's's some cost there. So to get something smaller and and and less expensive, we've come up with the mini bar lights. So it kinda pictures one through nine or one through six, sorry, cover that. So image two kinda shows basically kind of the split up version of mini bar as it connects to our compute sled. So Ian's board, the test board is there.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:06:43] We have a basically, an extender cable for the PCIe interface onto a little enclosure that we can slap on the top. The enclosure is it will hold a full height half-length card. And if anybody wants to play with anything bigger than that, we can, I can just make something form fit to that? The thing we had to consider was that these XMX connectors cables don't have great retention on their own. It neither does the power connector.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:07:17] So I kinda came up with just a little bit a little three d printed clip to hold those on so that if somebody walks by it and tugs on a cable, it doesn't come loose, and you're wondering what's going on. So they should be retained fairly well there. And then the whole thing, you know, again, originally just designed for the production version was kinda convenient enough to just fold up. I guess image three is probably the best one there for on top to sit on top of the compute sled. So it's I think it's less than a hundred dollars for the mechanical bits for this, and those are, like, extremely low volume runs.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:07:54] So that's that's fairly reasonable. And
[Bryan Can trill] [01:07:58] I love the power button. The power button is so great.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:08:01] Yeah. I wish I could've lit that up for the pictures, but, yeah, that'll light up. Yeah. And the kind of on the right side there is where the power comes into the minibar, which eventually feeds the slide as well. I didn't have a plug to show in there, but that's where the power will come in.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:08:16] And, yeah, if it's kinda sits neatly on top of the sled. Our next generation sled, it will work with that as well in the same manner. It's like Ian mentioned, it's got some magnets on it to just kinda roughly hold it in place, and there 's's a leg that kinda slips down into the fan tray so that this doesn't get, you know, kicked or knocked off onto the floor. So This Yeah. This is yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:08:40] It's so gorgeous. And so and this is and this is just so the mini bar we're using for that kind of manufacturing use case. And this is the mini bar light is what we're going to be using certainly in home labs, basements, but also in our lab here in Emeryville. This is going to be just to conserve that kind of that that depth. And we kinda use right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:09:03] Doug, so this not going to be used in manufacturing. This is basically a dev use case.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:09:07] This will not be used in manufacturing. No. This would not survive, you know, production operators kind of plugging in and unplugging it. Yeah. This is the yeah.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:09:19] Careful version. Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:09:20] This is very much a mean, this is a lot Minibar Lite is a lot closer to what, you know, minibar as a dongle was conceptualized to be. You know, this is just something small for the lab that people can use. It's not intended to get moved around a lot, and it's designed to be used by oxide engineers who are familiar enough with the hardware that they can take it apart and put it back together again. If it was about the time that Doug was showing off the initial renderings of the minibar production thing and people saw the PCIe slot on the back because it looks like the back of your ATX tower. Furthermore, it's got a PCIe slot there where you can plug a card in.
[Ian Sobering] [01:10:03] Where people started going like, so can I put a GPU in it?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:07] Yeah. Right. Of course.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:10:08] Right.
[Ian Sobering] [01:10:09] And we're like, I mean, I guess, but it, you know, it is needs to be 75 watt GPU or less, and it needs to come up, and it's going to come up in bi four mode, but that's it. But that's where and the the the 75 watt thing, one of the things one of the images that you posted in chat, Brian, that shows the mini war light all cable out on the bench, it has a PCIe add in card for one of the Chelsea o t six Ethernet NIC's in there. And minibar is designed to be able to tolerate one of those guys. They're 75 watt class cards, which I think is the highest PCIe add in card power level where you don't have to have external power connectors.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:10:51] Right.
[Ian Sobering] [01:10:52] Because I and at that people were like, well, yeah, but what if what about accelerators and GPUs? I was like, which ones do you wanna use? I was like, well, we don't know yet. Like, well, come back when we have a good idea, and I'll build some external power into it. But if what's really cool about this is, you know, we can stick a t six or t seven NIC in there and do software development against that.
[Ian Sobering] [01:11:14] Or if you do want, you know, 200 gigabit Ethernet or a hundred gigabit Ethernet into your your gimlet on a bench, and you happen to have a hundred gig switch at home, you can make that happen. I'm not advocating for that, but that was the criteria. And so that's what Doug built. He built the mechanical enclosure around. And I love the little PCIe riser cable coming off of that.
[Ian Sobering] [01:11:40] I think he has some photos in there of it. When it's folded up on top of the sled, you know, the minibar folds up on top of the sled, and then the PCIe enclosure folds up on top of minibar, and it's its just beautiful. I love it. Great work, Doug. Thank you.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:11:56] Thank you. I'll, I'll add, you know, in this home configuration, the PCI card is not in the air full path, you know, contrary to what is in the production version. So if is anyone runs anything too hot in there, it'll, it'll need a little oil.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:10] Yeah. Yeah.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:12:12] That that PCI enclosure was suggested by Adam, I guess, we were socializing this at Ox Con. I just kinda had that board sitting on there, and I's like, can we do something a little neater? And there it is.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:12:23] I feel like I probably didn't suggest it. I probably, like, touched something in a way that I wasn't supposed to, and you're like, gotcha. I need to include.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:30] Okay. Yeah. Exactly. It's a kind of suggestion. It's a
[Adam Levinthal] [01:12:35] I suggested Adam's family might appreciate him not dying by touching that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:39] And I still managed to drink the paint. Okay. So we need to actually secure that door latch
[Adam Levinthal] [01:12:43] a little bit better.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:12:45] In nearly every home used picture, I see there's a cat. So this is cat proofing it as well.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:51] That is true.
[Ian Sobering] [01:12:52] Those nice covers on there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:12:54] There I yes. There is a cat. I there are with are a lot of cats on compute sleds at oxide. So the compute sled does make it cat proof is definitely appreciated. And I know, yeah, I've got a've got a killer of boards that will she's she's a murderous for sure.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:13] She's not actually eating mice or squirrels. She's she's going after boards. So, so alright. So we've got this great mechanical design, very exciting. We've we've either made it Adam proof or we've incorporated Adam's suggestion depending on his story you believe there.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:13:32] The and then so you're doing layout for the Boardman, and now it's time, like, we've got this thing. We we we've got it taped out, and we're getting it fabled. And now it's time to bring the thing up. Right? This is only a couple of weeks ago now.
[Ian Sobering] [01:13:48] Yeah. So speaking of killing boards, happy to segue right into that one. Yeah. So minibar bring up so far has well, it's going to happen in two parts. Up till now, it's happened remotely.
[Ian Sobering] [01:14:01] I have a couple at my house. Well, actually, one now. I shipped one to Doug so we could take those photos. It's the one in the photos. But then here in a few weeks, we are all going to be the hardware team and the software, the hubris people and Brian and some of the other software folks are going to be out at Benchmark Electronics in Rochester.
[Ian Sobering] [01:14:19] And while we are out there doing bring up on the Cosmo compute sled, we will do some minibar software work and actually see some of the first non prototype, like, production tester minibar mechanical assemblies and, you know, do some of that work just while we're all there together. But the initial power on checks were done at my house in the spare bedroom over the garage where I've put together a little workshop, and it's its been interesting. The
[Bryan Can trill] [01:14:52] Yeah. What'd
[Ian Sobering] [01:14:53] hit? I received two boards from Benchmark who assembled them. And just want to plug for Benchmark here, they're they've been great to work with. They do incredible work. Really awesome partner in them.
[Ian Sobering] [01:15:08] So I I I'm like a kid on Christmas. I've been waiting, no joke, you know, a year and a half for these boards. And I cannot wait. And so Monday morning I go in just all excited. The first board, I take it out of the know, it's an ESD bag.
[Ian Sobering] [01:15:22] Take it out. I apply power. Minibar, you know, like Doug said, minibar passes bus power through from, you know, the big power supply on the bench to the sled. And normally, this is 54.5 volts. We designed the minibar to work with anything from 30 to about 65 volts because we want to be able to test sleds at different you know, over the full voltage range that they can handle.
[Ian Sobering] [01:15:52] So I'm I'm not going to go for broke. I'm going to put, like, 30 volts into it at first. And what I'm expecting to see, I've I've I'm expecting to see a bunch of green LEDs light up on the board because the power supplies are supposed to turn on automatically. There's a big, you know, big switching regulator that takes 54 volts and turns it into 12 volts. And then, you know, because we need 12 volts for the PCIe slot.
[Ian Sobering] [01:16:17] And then there are a bunch of smaller switching regulators that generate all the other system power supply rails. And on each of the power good indicator signals, I put a little green LED next to the regulator so I can look at the board and go, oh, good. You know, power came up. You know, well, there's my checkout. Okay.
[Ian Sobering] [01:16:33] You know, Matt Keeper, time to get going on hubris. And I don't see the green LEDs. Instead, what I see is once every ten seconds, all the green LEDs flicker on and off very briefly. And I go, oh, crap.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:16:50] The crops have
[Ian Sobering] [01:16:51] failed. Ten seconds is kind of a magic number in oxide 54 volt power land. Minibar has a hot swap controller on it. It's the same hot swap controller that we use in the sleds and the rack switches and everything else that runs on 54 volts. Because most the twelve seventy-two?
[Ian Sobering] [01:17:09] It's the ADM twelve seventy-two. Yep. Totally fine part, not dissing on the part. The ADM twelve seventy-two has a reset input. If you apply a low level to the reset pin, the reset the hot swap controller triggers on the falling edge of the signal.
[Ian Sobering] [01:17:30] So as you go from high to low, it sees the falling edge, and it will turn the board off and attempt to restart ten seconds later. And what I am seeing is the board is boot looping, and it's resetting itself. And I go, ah, crap. And so I go in and I look in the schematic. And when I design minibar, there's actually two hot swap controllers on minibar.
[Ian Sobering] [01:17:53] There's one that protects minibar's system power supply rails, you know, all the minibar guts. There's another one that the that passes power through to the sled because this thing is a cubby, and we're hot plugging and unplugging sleds from it. So it is electrically, it needs to be exactly the same as the rack. These hot swap controllers let minibar power cycle the sled. So you can do things like simulate what happens if your data centre power goes down and bus power disappears, in a lab environment.
[Ian Sobering] [01:18:25] And you can do this remotely. You can do this over Ethernet removing into minibar. So it's really cool. And at one point when I was designing it, thought, hey, wouldn't it be great to give minibar the ability to power cycle itself? You know, what happens if is, you know, somebody is remoted into minibar, and they go, oh, I need to update some firmware or something.
[Ian Sobering] [01:18:47] Because we have processes for updating firmware in things over the management network. We can do that to minibar. The last thing we need to do is trigger a power cycle and reboot the board. And what I did was I put a pull-up resistor from you know, so I took the reset line, I tied it to the FPGA. Okay.
[Ian Sobering] [01:19:08] Cool. The FPGA can can reset minibar. There's a pull-up resistor on that line to minibar's 3.3 volt power supply rail. What I thought was going to happen was I apply power to the board, you know, 54 volts come up, 12 volts come up, 3.3 volts comes up, everything is happy. What actually happens is I apply power to the board, 54 volts come up, the gigantic 12 volt switching supply turns on, and we see a volt and a half of what's called ground bounce between the 3.3 volt rail and ground.
[Ian Sobering] [01:19:50] And in electronics, we talk about ground. Ground is not some universal constant that is the same everywhere and a magical perfect reference. Ground is whatever you mean. To learn. Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:20:03] And, so I'm very disappointed by this. What happens when the 12 volt switching supply turns on is the the the voltage difference between all the other power supplies in the board which are just off and not doing anything and just sort of floating at, you know, approximately ground but aren't tied to ground And the quote unquote ground reference, ground drops away. And so if you probe the reset line, which is pulled up to the first play rail, you watch, you know, you see a positive going volt and a half spike, which is actually caused by ground dropping away. And and and I know that this is a little confusing, but, know, when you're when you're probing the board, you're referencing ground. And this is just one of these things that you you you get used to over time.
[Ian Sobering] [01:21:00] So ground drops away. The hot swap controller sees the voltage on the reset line go up to turns out one and a half volts is a logic one on that pin. And then the downstream power supplies turn on, everything stabilizes, the, you know, ground goes back to where it's supposed to be, the FPGA, you know, that pin is low that drops down below the logic zero threshold and the hot swap controller goes, oh shoot, that's a falling edge. I need to reset. Somebody triggered a reset, and it boots loops because it shuts all the power supplies off and ten seconds later it tries again.
[Ian Sobering] [01:21:35] And so ground just sits there bouncing and bouncing and bouncing and bouncing, and the board doesn't turn on. And the solution is really simple. You know, I get a little exact knife and I go in, and I cut the printed circuit board trace that, you know, connects to right at the hot swap controller that connects to the reset pin. And there's an internal pull up resistor in the reset in the hot swap controller that holds that line de asserted so it doesn't reset itself. And boom, we're done.
[Ian Sobering] [01:22:03] Except in the process of doing that, my probe slips and I touch 54 volts to the reset line, and it blows up the board. Oh. And this is now half an hour into the bring up process, and I am sweating bullets because I've just destroyed a minibar.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:22:23] But you have two.
[Ian Sobering] [01:22:24] Okay. So second board. I I I take five minutes, and I go walk around, and I calm down a little bit.
[Nathanael Huffman] [01:22:34] I take the second board out
[Ian Sobering] [01:22:35] of the block.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:22:36] Okay. First, I admire that. Yeah. I admire the because the yeah. The the the walker on the block is very important.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:22:42] Before we get to the second board, so how spectacular was the slip into 54? Was this like an exciting moment or not particular? Just like kind of a fizzle, not a bang?
[Ian Sobering] [01:22:54] It was exciting enough to be an oh shit moment, if you've heard my language. Because what you mean, you see a brief spark and all the LEDs
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:00] I was going to ask. Yeah. You saw sparks.
[Ian Sobering] [01:23:02] And then and then you get the sinking feeling in your gut where you're just like, oh, no. I did that.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:07] I don't think this board is supposed to make sparks.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:23:10] I don't think that was as bright.
[Ian Sobering] [01:23:11] In in in sort of there was a happy ending to that story. So it is it blew out a bunch of ESD protection structures in the FPGA and in the hot swap controller. And so I pulled the FPGA off, I replaced the hot swap controller, and it is cleared the short.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:23:28] So had I the board that you blew, you were able to rework?
[Ian Sobering] [01:23:32] Yeah. Partially, yeah. Wow. I was in the middle of finishing reworking it when Doug asked if is anyone had a minibar, and I shipped it to him. But, yeah, I think we think we could rework that board.
[Ian Sobering] [01:23:44] I just didn't have another FPGA to put on it. And without an FPGA, if you actually program the board and try to let it boot and run normally, the service processor will go, will fault during the boot process because it can't find an FPGA to load with the FPGA image. And so I just said, you know what? Let's use this one. You know, I'll ship this one to Doug so that he can do his mechanical checkouts, and then if we need it you know, we have there been 13 more of these at Benchmark.
[Ian Sobering] [01:24:11] If we need it, we can rework it, but if not, you know, it is it can be what it is.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:24:15] I see. Now, this is really sophisticated stuff too, because you send it to Doug, and then when he finds that there's an electrical problem, you can just say, what we would
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:23] find when I
[Adam Levinthal] [01:24:23] sent to
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:24] you. Yeah. Would need the left here. I don't know what's up front of
[Ian Sobering] [01:24:27] missing the empty spot where the FPGA it should be. No.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:31] No. Was there. I that FPGA was there when it left here. I don't
[Nathanael Huffman] [01:24:35] know what
[Ian Sobering] [01:24:35] to do. I did shipping.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:37] It was fun after shipping. Did have the kind of this reminded me, we had the sidecar heat sink, which is huge heat sink.
[Ian Sobering] [01:24:43] Oh.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:44] Yeah. And we were arriving bowed, and we had there been our manufacturers tried to convince us. Like, I think that's happening during shipping. It's like, shipping is not bowing a heat sink. Like, that is not.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:24:56] Sorry. I mean, was it just,
[Adam Levinthal] [01:24:57] like, was it just shipped in an envelope or something?
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:00] It was shipped in an envelope. Like, shit. We we we've seen all the failure modes for FedEx and UPS. Like, yeah. Like, this is, throwing a heat sink in the bushes does not do this.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:08] I'm sorry. Yeah. So okay. So you've got so that's the adventure board number one. Now but we now have one number two.
[Ian Sobering] [01:25:18] So this is like this is thirty minutes into my Monday morning, and I'm not okay at this point.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:24] And I was going to ask you, is this you were able to debug this really quickly, it sounds like.
[Ian Sobering] [01:25:29] Well, no. So it took me about, and I'll, I'll talk about how I debugged it. Here so it wasn't really quickly. I mean, you're you're getting sort of the after action report, and it makes it sound it is makes it sound like I was a lot more calm and collected than I actually
[Bryan Can trill] [01:25:46] I was not Such a relief. And Yeah. Right. Such a relief to know. You know, if you lose your mind.
[Ian Sobering] [01:25:52] I mean, I so my partner Chelsea works in the bedroom next to me, you know, and she's an integrated circuit designer. And I like, I went over to her office, I was like, I already blew up a board. It's been thirty minutes and I blew up a board. She's like, it's okay. It happens.
[Ian Sobering] [01:26:06] And, you know, it but if I was not having a
[Doug Ribbon] [01:26:09] good day.
[Ian Sobering] [01:26:10] So I
[Bryan Can trill] [01:26:10] When I blew up a board, namely, or when as aided by a cat, I there wasn't there was no sort of calm retelling in the next room. It was more like the kids thought I just snot my finger off. So Yeah. It was Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:26:25] If there were there are some words. But anyway, okay. So I have another one here and I take the second board out of the box.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:26:33] And I That board is looking at you nervously. Yeah. I What happened
[Ian Sobering] [01:26:37] to first board? Don't ask. Yeah. I well, and there there are other checks we do on these boards before we power them up. So like one of the things we'll do is we'll take a multimeter, and we'll, we'll probe around the board to make sure that that important things are not shorted and do that.
[Ian Sobering] [01:26:52] So there's I do all those checks. I put it under the microscope. I go in, and I cut the little reset trace next to the hot swap controller so it should power up okay. Furthermore, I connect power, I turn the power supply on, all the green LEDs turn on. This is perfect.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:08] It's great.
[Ian Sobering] [01:27:09] And the know, so I and I I I get my multimeter, you know, probe a couple of the power supply rails, okay, you know, 12 volts, 3.3 volts, one volt, you know, everything looks good. And I think I wanted to go get a different oscilloscope probe or something. And so I reach over, I hit the button on the power supply and I turn the board off. I get up Right.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:29] I mean, as you would. As
[Ian Sobering] [01:27:30] would. I go get whatever I was going to go get out of my closet. And
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:34] Meanwhile, anyone listens to this, like, why is he emphasizing that he turned the board off? Oh, yes, dear listener. That's Horse shot.
[Ian Sobering] [01:27:40] Was music you hear. Where yeah. No. It so I come back and I sit down. I reach over, and I punch the power supply turned on.
[Ian Sobering] [01:27:50] None of the LEDs come on. So I get my and at this point, I'm really not having a good day. And
[Bryan Can trill] [01:27:58] Yeah. Time to take a walk.
[Ian Sobering] [01:27:59] Everyone in the house knows about it. And so I get my multimeter, and I start probing the power supply rails. The hot swap controller is okay. It turned on, and it is, you know, outputting bus power. You know, again, I'm not using the full 54 volts.
[Ian Sobering] [01:28:16] I'm like it's like 35 or 40 volts. But you know, so stage one is okay. Stage two is the big switching supply that takes 54 volts and turns it into 12 volts. And you know, in the compute sleds, we buy these switching supplies from, you know, the IBC, we buy these from a third party vendor. Minibar doesn't need, you know, a kilowatt worth of power delivery for its little two channel network switches.
[Ian Sobering] [01:28:47] And so, you know, I designed a smaller version that basically does the same thing. And it has you can see it in the photos. It's the gigantic power inductor over there next to the oxide label and the minibar logo. That's the switching supply. And so I put it in and I yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:29:07] Well, power going into it is good. No 12 volts coming out. That's weird because that was working a minute ago. And so I put it under the microscope, and I look at the output and I immediately see the problem. There is a there is a current sense resistor in series with the 12 volt output that the switching supply uses to figure out how much current it is delivering to the load.
[Ian Sobering] [01:29:35] And the internal current control loop in the switching regulator uses that to figure out, you know, how hard to switch, how much current to put out. And this is sort of glossing over it because switch regulators are black magic anymore, and we really need Eric on here to talk about that. But under the microscope, that resistor is rotated 90 degrees. So instead of being a resistor, you know, like a one milliohm resistor, it is a dead short across the pads where it's supposed to be. It is a zero resistor.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:09] Okay. And this is like, so how did it work ever?
[Ian Sobering] [01:30:12] Well, at first, the when when the 12 volt supply turns on, nothing else on the board is powered up. So the switching regulator expects to see almost no load current.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:30:26] Right.
[Ian Sobering] [01:30:27] And so it ramps the 12 volt supply up like normal. But as things turn on, it's gonna slowly start drawing more and more current as the different power supply rails come up and the service processor configures and the FPGA turns on. And the switching regulator has voltage and current sensing lines, you know, at the point of load to so it knows, hey, is my 12 volt supply actually 12 volts? And how much current am I putting into the load for, you know, control system magic purposes? What it saw was Infinite current.
[Ian Sobering] [01:31:01] Pumping more, you know, more and more currents into the well, here's what it saw. It saw me punch the button on the power supply, and its input power went away. So its output power starts going away, and the internal control loop sees, oh, no. My output is drooping. I need to pump more and more and more current into the output to prop it back up.
[Ian Sobering] [01:31:25] I need to boost my output back up to 12 volts. I and I'm guessing here because I don't know the details on how this part works. What I do know is when I turned it off, it popped the switching supply. And so what I'm guessing happened is it dumped more and more and more current in there expecting to see some current, but instead it saw no current because the resistor pads, the pads on either side of the resistor, you know, that would normally be, you know, there's a pad and then there's a resistor in the middle and then there's another pad. The pads actually made a dead short across the component footprint where the resistor should be.
[Ian Sobering] [01:32:00] So no matter how much current dumped into the load, it was never going to see anything. If it was going to see zero load current, zero load current. My output is falling. I need to output more stuff. And it overstressed the Moses and the switching supply and consequently overstressed the controller IC and blew it up.
[Ian Sobering] [01:32:18] And so the rework on that one was really easy, and that board is now working. So I, you know, I pull the Moses off because I'm I'm probing around. I go, oh no. Well, there's a there's a dead short to ground. It's under the 12 volt switching supply, and it's localized right where the switching FET's are.
[Ian Sobering] [01:32:35] Probably what happened was and you sort of work back from And, so I pulled the resistor off, pulled the Moses off, pulled the little switching regulator off, put new ones on, double-checked to make sure everything was okay, and the board powered up with no problems. And then I immediately sat there punching the power supply button off and on and off and on and off and on to see if it blew up in, and it didn't. So, you know, that is you know, and you know, further testing showed that everything is fine. It behaves like we thought it would, but two for two right off the line, that one was just an assembly error. The pick and place machine, put the resistor down, turned 90 degrees, and
[Bryan Can trill] [01:33:11] you on the other one?
[Ian Sobering] [01:33:14] That's where it gets interesting. So we and I actually have the statistics on that here. We submitted what we call an NCR, which is for not product that is non-conforming to benchmark. And have them basically to say, hey, you know, in one of two boards that Ian got, it didn't conform in this way. The resistors rotate 90 degrees.
[Ian Sobering] [01:33:39] Would you please go inspect the other ones and let us know what happened? And in we built 15 minibars. 13 of them were fine, two of them had the resistor rotated 90 degrees. And I just happened to get one, and it happened to be my second board of the day.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:33:59] Interesting. Is that a common I would have thought it was kind of all or nothing, not that kind of ratio.
[Ian Sobering] [01:34:06] We've seen sense resistors rotated 90 degrees before, and I have some suspicions This particular part, the resistor, so all these boards go through optical inspection where they have an automated camera go around and look at, you know, components and check to make sure they're in the right orientation. I've seen sense resistors rotated before on service leads and other things. I suspect one of the reasons why is this you know, most resistors, like, if you imagine your surface mount resistor, they're black. This one is green, and the solder mask on the board is green, and they're about the same colour. Maybe there's something there were the automated inspection camera gets confused and does a pass.
[Ian Sobering] [01:34:48] I'm not sure. But these are the kinds of things you feed back to your board assemblers so that they can fine tune their process. And we've done this on all of our products. It just, you know, for me sitting there, you know, it's now been sixty minutes. I've blown up two boards.
[Ian Sobering] [01:35:04] And the second one I'm gonna claim, I swear to God it was not my fault. But, you know
[Doug Ribbon] [01:35:10] But I'm
[Adam Levinthal] [01:35:10] sure you have perfect confidence having known Oh my gosh. Knowing that the first one might have been your Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:35:15] And so now But this is this is tales from the bring up lab. And so Totally.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35:21] Yeah. At
[Ian Sobering] [01:35:22] this at this point, I messaged Well, actually, later in the day after I called him, I messaged Nathaniel, and I was like, Nathaniel, I screwed up.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:35:31] I got a story.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:35:33] Nathaniel's like, send it to Duck. Just send them both to Duck.
[Ian Sobering] [01:35:36] Well, Nathaniel and Eric were both really kind because they both came back and were like, Dude, I've blown up so much stuff. And shared some really, really excruciating stories of boards that have blown up, or you know, just, you know, Nathaniel shared a story of an absolutely insane rework that he did on a board, you know, as pre he and Eric did actually on a board when they were both at GE and you know, so that was nice. But then you get to start the process of debugging these things. And you know, because I have two dead boards and this was supposed to be my week. I was supposed to be doing minibar bring up.
[Ian Sobering] [01:36:19] The second board with the popped power supply was really easy. You know, there was an obvious something is wrong, and I bet that has something to do with it, you know, because the board that didn't blow up didn't have that problem. And so
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:31] that was the regular thing around? How did you find that you
[Ian Sobering] [01:36:35] I ordered it. I had Dickey ship me one.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:36:37] Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to ask if you kind of cannibalized board number one for that, but the OK, so you yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:36:42] Well, I hesitated to pull any parts off of board number one because I actually debugged board number two first. Until I had until I had time to troubleshoot board number one, I didn't know how much of the board got zapped. And what I did Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:00] Want to do was
[Ian Sobering] [01:37:00] was pull a part that I thought was good off of board number one
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:03] Oh, god. And put
[Ian Sobering] [01:37:04] it on board number two and have it not come up because of damage that I would have caught if I would have just troubleshooted board number one. And so I just stuck with board number two. I had, you know, I needed some other parts, so Digit Key shipped me, you know, quantity 10 of these switching regulators and so far I've used one. I mean, I'll use this on other boards too, so it's not, you know, it's not a big capital investment. But no, just get new parts.
[Ian Sobering] [01:37:30] They're like a dollar each.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:37:32] Yeah, yeah, right. The turnaround is pretty good. So but I think it's, but it's wild that the failure mode of this was that when you powered it off, and it detected the troop, that's when it starts shoving infinite current into itself because That's
[Ian Sobering] [01:37:45] a theory. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't I didn't have it hooked up to the oscilloscope because what I was about to do was there are test points on the board where I can clip little connectors on and capture oscilloscope traces of the power supply rails as they come up and as they power off. And that was like literally the next measurement I was gonna make, and it was probably what I was going to go get a probe to do.
[Ian Sobering] [01:38:07] And I, you know, that was when it popped. So, yeah. It was it's just bad timing. But the board number one, so I I couple days later, the parts came in, fixed board number two, that was all good. Board number one
[Bryan Can trill] [01:38:22] And board number two worked. So just in terms of like, you were able to bring it back up again, I mean, must have been
[Ian Sobering] [01:38:25] a Yeah.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:38:26] Must been I mean, you feel you got this thing debugged, but it must still be a relief when it powers on Yeah. And it actually works.
[Ian Sobering] [01:38:32] Yeah. So board board number two is actually on the bench behind me right now waiting for me to flash the firmware. Board number one, I knew it had gotten zapped. I thought I knew what traces I had zapped. I wasn't sure exactly because my memory of the event is not great.
[Ian Sobering] [01:38:57] If it was a very stressful time in my life. And Right. So what I but, you know, if you looked at the board, it was really obvious that, you know, things had blown up and stuff was shorted. And so Yeah. The first step in troubleshooting that is, you know, take your multimeter and probe around the board and see what things are shorted that are not supposed to be shorted.
[Ian Sobering] [01:39:19] And pretty quickly, it was obvious that the 3.3 volt rail, which is what the reset signal was pulled up to and was causing the whole ground bouncing had gotten zapped somewhere. Something Yeah. Interesting. One of the chips on the board or multiple of the chips on the board were blown and that rail was now shorted to ground. The question is which chips are which chips got zapped?
[Ian Sobering] [01:39:44] And to troubleshoot that, so I have I took another power supply which it's like a low voltage high current supply. It's like, I don't it does like six volts and 10 amps or something, up to 10 amps. And it's a current controlled it's a nice power supply concurrent limit. I can program the current limit and clamp the output current at something reasonable and safe. So I hooked up the power supply directly to the 3.3 volt rail and dumped current into the power supply to try to produce, you know, because as current flows through the short in the board, it creates a voltage drop.
[Ian Sobering] [01:40:28] And so as I increase the current that I dump into the three volt rail, the voltage that develops across the short gets bigger and bigger. And if I then take my multimeter and probe around the board, the know, and probe the board at different points, as I as my probes get closer and closer to the short, I will see that voltage drop change.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:40:49] Interesting.
[Ian Sobering] [01:40:49] And and and so I did that and it, you know, it became pretty clear that the FPGA was popped. So I took the FPGA off, still shorted, probe here on the board some more. Okay. Well, it also popped the hot swap controller. Makes sense because those things are tied together.
[Ian Sobering] [01:41:05] And so, you know, I pulled those off, probed the board, and the short's gone. And so I went, okay. Well, at this point, I'm confident I can probably rework it. And so it I actually used that board to practice reworking board number two, and then I shipped it to Doug so he could do mechanical checks.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:23] That's cool. That's great. So do we okay. So then we have the thing now brought up. We know we're we're going to give feedback on AOI or what have you to get make sure we don't have the current resistor issue.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:41:40] And then it's on to software and and and and the software and this is all running hubris, you can actually folks can go look at the minibar image if they want. I think it's all it's all out there in the open. Don't think Matt's got that on a private branch, so you can go check that out.
[Ian Sobering] [01:41:56] Yeah. Matt is Matt's working on the hubris image, and Nathaniel is working on the FPGA stuff. As of today, I think he think Aaron. Mission check out. Or I'm sorry.
[Ian Sobering] [01:42:05] Not Nathaniel. Aaron. My apologies. Nathaniel's like, please, I don't need any more work.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:11] Yeah. Exactly. Right. Awesome. There is then In
[Ian Sobering] [01:42:16] the interest of full disclosure, there is one bug, like, actual one bug that I have found. And it was a goof that I made, and it's the one of the RMI Ethernet signals between the service processor and the management network switch in minibar is connected to the wrong pin on the service processor.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:42:36] Right. Yeah, I heard about that. Oh, yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:42:37] It's not a showstopper because if you know, it's not a showstopper. We've gotten enough feedback just in you know, because and again, it's been it's been almost a year since this board was sent out to manufacturing between when the board went out for manufacturing and just now doing bring up. And in that intervening time, we've been doing, like, all the Cosmo service led design. So there was a lot that we learned in the process of doing Cosmo specific debug capabilities that we either want to roll into minibar or specific use cases that were like, you know, a year ago, we thought we were going to do this, but you know, now that I actually have one of these boards in my hand, and I'm I'm I'm I'm doing bring up, and I'm using it, Like, I really hate what I did here. I want to change something.
[Ian Sobering] [01:43:26] So there's a lot of that that's going to get rolled into what will be the final version of minibar that actually goes out onto the production floor. But those are the kind of lessons you learn. And I actually think I can rework this one, but it involves Who
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:40] are really?
[Ian Sobering] [01:43:41] Well I mean did work on Friday, and the test is to flash the hubris image and do humility monorail status and see if the network is up.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:43:52] And did you have to dead bug it to rework it? Or how did you
[Ian Sobering] [01:43:57] rework, and I mentioned this just I think because the rework is kind of sketchy and interesting, but also because in the interest of full disclosure, I did make a goof here. The rework is pull the service processor off and clean all the solder off the pads on the board. Then you get a fresh service processor, and you pull two of the solder balls off the bottom of the BGA.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:44:22] And you
[Ian Sobering] [01:44:23] take some 40 gauge magnet wire so you pull some solder balls off to make a path out, and then you take some 40 gauge magnet wire, and you tack it to either to the pad on the board or the pad on the BGA package that you need to get the signal out of. And then you flip the thing upside down, and you saw, and you reflow solder it back onto the board. All the while trying to keep the wire from moving.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:44:51] Holy then once
[Ian Sobering] [01:44:52] it's attached, you take the wire, and you run it over to just like one of the series source termination resistors that's already there on the board, there's a nice pad that you need to, it's just this last inch of trace you need to rework, and two of them have signals attached to it, and I can just jumper to them. And that took thirty seconds to fix. It's just there's this one trace that isn't brought out of the package despite what Nathaniel and Eric warned me about because they have a lot of experience with things like this. I did not do it. I am now learning my lesson.
[Ian Sobering] [01:45:31] And so I on Friday, actually, I did the rework. I had planned on I just need to set up a programming station so I can flash the cue percentage.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:45:41] You pulled that off, or do you think you might have pulled
[Ian Sobering] [01:45:45] that I well, I think I did. Wow. Nothing is shorted. The service processor looks like it reflowed well. Like it's, you know, it's not like propped up on one side where the wire's coming out or anything like that.
[Ian Sobering] [01:45:57] The real test will be to, you know, to flash the hubris image and see what humility tells me about the status of the network link. And like I said, this is not a showstopper because if we's really the talk to the service processor, we plug a dongle into it like we normally do in the light. Yeah. Right. But when we deploy these things, especially the minibar lights, we need that link up.
[Ian Sobering] [01:46:26] So Yeah. You know, we'll fix it. You know, it is it happens. So yeah. Yeah.
[Ian Sobering] [01:46:31] That's that's the bring up story.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:32] That is heroic rework, I have to say. Because that is I
[Ian Sobering] [01:46:35] we'll see if it works.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:46:36] I don't know.
[Ian Sobering] [01:46:37] No, no promises.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:38] Well, you're going to have to add photos of that to the album for sure. So we're going to need to get we're gonna whether it works or doesn't, that's going to be exciting. That's that's that's exciting either way.
[Ian Sobering] [01:46:48] We'll drop a photo in the chat here of the magnet wire coming out from under the Yeah. Package.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:46:56] And then Doug, the other thing is what I wanted to ask you about, because I know that for Cosmo, we and you got a photo there of the kind of the the the Cosmo programming prototype. Did you want to just describe what that is a little bit?
[Doug Ribbon] [01:47:11] Yeah. Ian can probably help with that. He mentioned earlier that with our our our current compute slide, Gimlet, the programming interfaces are there are, I believe, four of them, the headers, and they're kind of spread. So there 's's not a lot of hope for automating any of that. I guess these are in reference to pictures, twelve and thirteen, Brian, as you mentioned.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:47:31] Yep. So for our new next generation feeds led, there's been, I guess, a little more consideration for concentrating those in one area for programming. And we've got a single Same header kind of in the back corner of the PCBA. You can see these are very approximated. I think that's a courtesy of my colleague, Brooks, a laser cut acrylic mock PCBA that I glued a connector to.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:48:00] So we're we're trying out basically a single port, single interface for the programming function on our next generation slide, which brings the potential of automating this process, which I think is low priority at this point, much more into the realm of possibility. So, you know, currently, as Ian mentioned, we got a plug in the plug in the sled, attach four cables, and program the sled here. It's just one.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:48:36] Yeah. That's oh, and this is all very important for, you know, especially as we get Cosmo out there and as we begin to really ramp and then, know, we've had the a bunch of our always customers have asked us like, okay. This is great. Like, but how do I if I want to buy 10 racks, if I want to buy 20 racks, like how are you going to be able to do that? And minibar is a really important piece of that in terms of being able and the kind of this unified programming header here that we're going to have on Cosmo.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:49:06] Like all this stuff really adds up for our own speed and reliability of manufacturing to because you just when you try to accelerate a, or you're trying to scale a process that's that's our that's manual or what have you, it's everything's going to break. So, Doug, to your point, like, more we can auto we actually have secured now something that we've got some hope of being able to automate.
[Doug Ribbon] [01:49:31] Yes. And kind of, you know, aside design intent on this production version mini bar is, you know, it's its made with these stock extrusions, alumina elements. We should be able to kinda scale these and gang these up, as we need to scale for volume production. So I don't know that we'd ever get, you know, our of the equivalent of a rack full of these, but conceivably, you know, these can all stack together and we can test multiple slides at once.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:50:04] Yeah. Which is awesome. That is awesome. Well, this is great. It's super exciting.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:50:11] I mean, congratulations. I know, you know, it's been a long journey, and we've obviously we've competing priorities and everything else. So it's been, but it's really great to have something in hand that that that works, that rework that you showed the photo you dropped is amazing of the wire coming out. And it's going to be certainly very exciting to get this thing on the manufacturing floor. And I think realizing the image the vision of minibar.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:50:45] It's very exciting stuff.
[Ian Sobering] [01:50:47] Yeah. We're we're really excited. There are a lot of people who who who are looking forward to using it. And, you know, it's its been a group effort. I mean, everyone on the hardware team made this happen.
[Ian Sobering] [01:50:57] And, I mean, Doug has just been we've we have two really great mechanical engineers here at Oxide, and Doug has just absolutely been killing it on this. So a big thanks to everyone who helped make this possible.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:10] Yeah. Really terrific work all around. Great teamwork. And do go check out the RFD, check out the photos. Ian, you have to keep us up to date on good luck.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:20] I think we're all I kind of
[Ian Sobering] [01:51:24] feel like Hopefully find out tomorrow.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:26] Exactly. Leslie Nielsen in airplane. But we're we're all counting on you. So good stuff. And again, terrific, terrific work all around.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:38] And, Adam, good suggestion on the on you know? Look, look, your suggestion's being incorporated.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:51:45] Yeah. How about that? Whether I remember it or not.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:47] And how great is this? I just feel like we're living the dream here.
[Adam Levinthal] [01:51:50] This is just so It's astounding. Yeah. It's awesome.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:51:52] I just think it's awesome. Alright. Well, thank you very much everyone. And, I think we're going to have a yet another episode being planned somewhat in advance next week. So stay tuned, but we are going to have some folks on the support and engineering team talking about a fascinating support case that we had that we want to get into the details of.
[Bryan Can trill] [01:52:15] So I'm going to be looking forward to, I think, Vaughn and Trey and I think we'll have Will on and I see a couple other folks. So stay tuned next week for that. Alright. Thanks, everyone.